<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 99</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-99" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">99</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, August 8, 1743</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I am very sorry to hear from London that you have got a rash, which I suppose proceeds from an immense quantity of bad fruit you have eaten; however, it is well for you that the distemper discharges itself in this way, and you will be the better for it afterwards. But pray, let all fruit, for some time, be forbidden fruit to you: and let no Westminster Eve, with either stall or basket, tempt you to taste. Health, in my mind, deserves more attention than life; and yet one would think that few people knew the value of it, by their way of living. Fruit is yet the only irregularity your age exposes you to; and you see the consequences of it; but they are not to compare to the ill consequences which attend the irregularities of manhood. Wine and women give incurable distempers. Fevers, the gout, the stone, the pox, are the necessary consequences of debauchery; and can rational creatures then wilfully bring such misfortunes upon themselves? I am sure you never will. <i xml:lang="la">Mens sana in corpore sano</i>, is the truest description of human happiness; I think you have them both at present; take care to keep them; it is in your power to do it.</p>
			<p>If I should not be in town before the silly breaking up for Bartholomewtide, I would have you then go as usual to Mr. Maittaire, to amuse yourself with Greek. I have wrote to him about it; and I expect a much better account of you from him this breaking up, than I had the last. Do not write to me after next Thursday, for I leave this place next Saturday. You need not send me any theme, since you have not been well, and I will be satisfied with bearing of your recovery; but you may get the two themes I sent you ready against I come to town. You will observe, they are direct contrary subjects, and I shall be glad to know what you can urge on each side of the question. <i xml:lang="la">Magnis tamen excidit ausis</i>, is what Ovid says of Phaeton, to excuse his attempting what he could not perform; and implies that there is some degree of merit in attempting great things, even though one fails. The other, <i xml:lang="la">Aut nunquam tentes, aut perfice</i>, recommends prudence in all we undertake, and to attempt nothing that we are not sure to be able to go through with. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
