<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 67</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-67" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">67</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Thursday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>You will seldom hear from me without an admonition to think. All you learn, and all you can read, will be of little use, if you do not think and reason upon it yourself. One reads to know other people’s thoughts; but if we take them upon trust, without examining and comparing them with our own, it is really living upon other people’s scraps, or retailing other people’s goods. To know the thoughts of others, is of use, because it suggests thoughts to one’s self, and helps one to form a judgment; but to repeat .other people’s thoughts, without considering whether they are right or wrong, is the talent only of a parrot, or at most a player.</p>
			<p>If <em>Night</em> were given you as a subject to compose upon, you would do very well to look what the best authors have said upon it, in order to help your own invention; but then you must think of it afterwards yourself, and express it in your own manner, or else you would be at best but a plagiary. A plagiary is a man who steals other people’s thoughts, and puts them off for his own. You would find, for example, the following account of Night in Virgil:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>Nox erat, et placidum carpebant fessa soporem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Corpora per terras; sylvæque et sæva quierant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Æquora: cum medio volvuntur sidera lapsu;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cum tacet omnis ager, pecudes, pictæque volucres,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quæque lacus latè liquidos, quæque aspera dumis</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rura tenent; somno posite sub nocte silenti</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lenibant curas, et corda oblita laborum.</span>
					<br/>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Here you see the effects of night; that it brings rest to men when they are wearied with the labours of the day; that the stars move in their regular course; that flocks and birds repose themselves, and enjoy the quiet of the night. This, upon examination, you would find to be all true; but then, upon consideration too, you would find, that it is not all that is to be said upon night; and many more qualities and effects of night would occur to you. As, for instance, though night is in general the time of quiet and repose, yet it is often the time too for the commission and security of crimes; such as robberies, murders and violations; which generally seek the advantage of darkness, as favourable for the escape of the guilty. Night too, though it brings rest and refreshment to the innocent and virtuous, brings disquiet and horror to the guilty. The consciousness of their crimes torments them, and denies them sleep and quiet. You might, from these reflections, consider what would be the proper epithets to give to night: as, for example, if you were to represent night in its most pleasing shape, as procuring quiet and refreshment from labour and toil, you might call it the <em>friendy</em> night, the <em>silent</em> night, the <em>welcome</em> night, the <em>peaceful</em> night; but if, on the contrary, you were to represent it as inviting to the commission of crimes, you would call it the <em>guilty</em> night, the <em>conscious</em> night, the <em>horrid</em> night; with many other epithets, that carry along with them the idea of horror and guilt: for an epithet to be proper must always be adapted (that is, suited) to the circumstances of the person or thing to which it is given. Thus Virgil, who generally gives Æneas the epithet of pious, because of his piety to the gods, and his duty to his father, calls him <em>Dux</em> Æneas, where he represents him making love to Dido, as a properer epithet for him in that situation; because making love becomes a general much better that a man of singular piety.</p>
			<p>Lay aside, for a few minutes, the thoughts of play, and think of this seriously.</p>
			<blockquote xml:lang="la">
				<p>Amoto quæramus seria ludo.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Adieu.</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:postscript">You may come to me on Saturday morning, before you go to Mr. Maittaire.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
