<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 28</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-28" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">28</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-30" id="noteref-30" epub:type="noteref">30</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Isleworth, July 22</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>We shall now, if you please, enter upon the subject of geography, and give you a general idea of that science, which is extremely useful and necessary, as it teaches us the situation of towns and countries which are continually mentioned, and of which we must by no means be ignorant. You already know that the world is divided into four parts, which are Europe, Asia, Africa, and America. We will begin with Europe, because it contains the countries and kingdoms most frequently spoken of: such are Sweden, Denmark, and Russia, towards the north: Spain, Portugal, Italy, and Turkey in Europe, to the south: and in the middle, England, France, Germany, and the United Provinces.</p>
			<p>The knowledge of these things tends to cultivate and to form your mind; but the most important business is to form your heart, that is, to make you an honest man. As such, you will abhor injustice, lies, pride, and avarice. If a person, though possessed of the finest understanding and greatest knowledge, should be a liar, cruel, proud and covetous, he will be hated and detested by every human creature, and shunned like a wild beast. With respect to covetousness, I yesterday read in Ovid’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Metamorphoses</i> a pretty story on that subject.</p>
			<p>A king named Midas, entreated the god Bacchus that every thing he touched might turn to gold. Bacchus granted his request, so that whatever he touched was immediately transformed into gold. At first Midas was highly pleased with his riches, but soon found cause to repent, for he was very near dying of hunger. When he wanted to eat or drink, every thing instantly turned to gold. He then perceived the folly of being so avaricious, and prayed to Bacchus to take back that gift of which he bad been so desirous. The god, out of his goodness, relieved him, and Midas ate and drank as before.</p>
			<p>The moral of this fable teaches us, that covetous people heap up riches without any view of making use of them: that they often refuse themselves the necessaries of life, and even die of hunger in the midst of their gold and riches.</p>
			<p>You will find this story in the beginning of the eleventh book of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Metamorphoses</i>.</p>
			<p>Adieu, my dear boy.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
