<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 23</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-23" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">23</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-27" id="noteref-27" epub:type="noteref">27</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, March 28, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>I have received a letter from Mr. Maittaire, in which he gives a very good account of you; and assures me that you improve in learning; upon which I immediately bought something very pretty, to bring you from hence. Consider now whether you ought not to love Mr. Maittaire, and do every thing in your power to please him. He tells me, you are going to begin again what you have already learned: you ought to be very attentive, and not repeat your lessons like a parrot, without knowing what they mean.</p>
			<p>In my last I told you, that, in order to be a perfectly virtuous man, justice was not sufficient; for that generosity and greatness of soul implied much more. You will understand this better by examples: here are some.</p>
			<p>Alexander the Great, king of Macedonia, baving conquered Darius, king of Persia, took an infinite number of prisoners; and, among others, the wife and mother of Darius. Now, according to the laws of war, he might with justice have made slaves of them; but he had too much greatuess of soul to make a bad use of his victory: he therefore treated them as queens, and shewed them the same attentions and respect, as if he had been their subject; which Darius hearing of, said, that Alexander deserved to be victorious, and was alone worthy to reign in his stead. Observe by this, how virtue, and greatness of soul, compel even enemies to bestow praises.</p>
			<p>Julius Cæsar, too, the first emperor of the Romans, was in an eminent degree possessed of humanity, and this greatness of soul. After having vanquished Pompey the Great at the battle of Pharsalia, he pardoned those, whom, sccording to the laws of war, be might have put to death; and not only gave them their lives, but also restored them their fortunes, and their nonours. Upon which Cicero, in one of his orations, makes this beautiful remark, speaking to Julins Cæsar: <i xml:lang="la">Nihil enim potest fortuna tua majus, quam ut possis, aut natura tua melius, quam ut velis, conservare quamplurimos</i>: which means, “Fortune could not do more for you, than give you the power of saving so many people; nor nature serve you better, than in giving you the will to do it.” You see by that, what glory and praise are gained by doing good; besides the pleasure which is felt inwardly, and exceeds all others.</p>
			<p>Adieu! I shall conclude this letter, as Cicero often does his; <i xml:lang="la">Jubeo te bene valere</i>: that is to say, I order you to be in good health.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
