<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 25</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-25" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">25</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, April 16, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>I received your letter, and if you go on to learn at this rate, you will soon puzzle me, in Greek especially; however, I shall not be sorry to be outdone by you, and the sooner you are too hard for me the better. I think, for the future, I shall call you little Polyglot, which is originally a Greek word, that signifies many tongues, or many languages. Mr. Maittaire writes me word, that he intends to bring you acquainted with Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Martial, who are the most famous Latin poets; therefore I think it may now be necessary to inform you a little, what poetry is, and the difference between poetry and prose. Prose, you know already, is the language of common conversation; it is what you, and every body speaks and writes. It requires no rhymes, nor no certain number of feet or syllables. But poetry is a more noble and sublime way of expressing one’s thoughts, For example, in prose, you would say very properly, “it is twelve of the clock at noon,” to mark the middle of the day; but this would be too plain and flat in poetry; and you would rather say, “the chariot of the sun had already finished half its course.” In prose you would say, “the beginning of the morning, or the break of day;” but that would not do in verse; and you must rather say, “Aurora spread her rosy mantle.” Aurora, you know, is the goddess of the morning. This is what is called poetical diction. Latin and Greek verses have no rhymes, but consist of a certain number of feet and syllables. The hexameter verses have six feet; the pentameter have five feet. All French verses whatsoever have rhymes. But English verses, some have rhymes, and some have none; those that have no rhymes are called blank verses; but though they have no rhymes, they have the same number of feet or syllables that verses in rhyme have. All our best English tragedies are writ in blank verse, of five feet, or ten syllables, for a foot in English verse is two syllables. For example, the famous tragedy of Cato begins thus:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>The dawn is overcast, the morning lowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heavily in clouds brings on the day.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Here you see each of these verses have five feet, or ten syllables, though they have no rhymes. Englich verses of five feet are called long verse, or heroic verse, because heroic poems are writ in that verse. As Homer’s Ilias in Greek, and Virgil’s Æneis in Latin, are both written in long hexameter verses. Here is enough of poetry for this time, if you will but remember it; we will have some more of it hereafter. I shall see you next week in London, where I have very pretty things to give you, because I am sure you will deserve them. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
