<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 35</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-35" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">35</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Isleworth, September 17, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>In my two last letters, I explained to you the meaning and use of history, geography, and chronology, and shewed you the connection they had with one another; that is, how they were joined together, and depended each upon the other. We will now consider history more particularly by itself.</p>
			<p>The most ancient histories of all are so mixed with fables, that is, with falsehoods and invention, that little credit is to be given to them. All the heathen gods and goddesses that you read of in the poets were only men and women; but, as they had either found out some useful invention, or had done a great deal of good in the countries where they lived, the people, who had a great veneration for them, made them gods and goddesses when they died, addressed their prayers, and raised altars to them. Thus Bacchus, the god of wine, was only the first man who invented the making of wine, which pleased the people so much, that they made a god of him; and may be they were drunk when they made him so. So Ceres, the goddess of plenty, who is always represented in pictures with wheat sheaves about her head, was only some good woman who invented ploughing and sowing, and raising corn; and the people, who owed their bread to her, deified her; that is, made a goddess of her. The case is the same of all the other pagan gods and goddesses which you read of in profane and fabulous history.</p>
			<p>The authentic, that is, the true ancient history, is divided into five remarkable periods or eras, of the five great empires of the world. The first empire of the world was tha Assyrian, which was destroyed by the Medes. The empire of the Medes was overturned by the Persians; and the empire of the Persians was demolished by the Macedonians, under Alexander the Great. The empire of Alexander the Great lasted no longer than his life; for, at his death, his generals divided the world among them, and went to war with one another; till at last the Roman empire arose, swallowed them all up, and Rome became the mistress of the world. Remember, then, that the five great empires that succeeded each other were these:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>The Assyrian Empire, first established.</li>
				<li>The Empire of the Medes.</li>
				<li>The Persian Empire.</li>
				<li>The Macedonian Empire.</li>
				<li>The Roman Empire.</li>
			</ol>
			<p>If ever you find a word that yod do not understand, either in my letters or any where else, I hope you remember to ask your Mamma the meaning of it. Here are but three in this letter which you are likely not to understand; these are,</p>
			<p>Connection, which is a noun substantive, that signifies a joining or tying together; it comes from the verb to connect, which signifies to join. For example, one says of any two people that are intimate friends, and much together, there is a great connection between them, or, they are mightily connected. One says so also of two things that have a resemblance, or a likeness to one another, there is a cennection between them: as, for example, there is a great connection between poetry and painting, because they both express nature, and a strong and lively imagination is necessary for both.</p>
			<p>Deify is a verb, which signifies to make a god; it comes from the Latin word <i xml:lang="la">Deus</i>, God, and <i xml:lang="la">Fio</i>, I become. The Roman emperors were always deified after their death, though most of them were rather devils when alive.</p>
			<p>Authentic, means <em>true</em>; something that may be depended upon, as coming from good authority. For example, one says, such a history is authentic, such a piece of news is authentic; that is, one may depend upon the truth of it.</p>
			<p>I have just now received your letter, which is very well written.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
