<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 85</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-85" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2>
					<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal">85</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-49" id="noteref-49" epub:type="noteref">49</a>
				</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Asia</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Asia was the largest and most celebrated part of the ancient world. Adam, the first man, was created there; and in it the first great monarchies bhad their rise, namely, the Assyrians, Medes, and Persians. The arts and sciences were also invented there. Asia is at present divided into six great parts:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>Turkey,</li>
				<li>Persia,</li>
				<li>The Empire of the Mogul, or Indostan,</li>
				<li>China,</li>
				<li>Tartary,</li>
				<li>The Asiatic Islands.</li>
			</ul>
			<p>Turkey in Asia contains an infinite number of countries formerly of great celebrity; but now of note only on account of the merchandise which comes from thence. Almost every place mentioned in the Bible makes a part of Turkey; among the rest Palestine, of which the capital is the famous city of Jerusalem, the seat of the ancient kings of Judah; there, by God’s command, Solomon built the Temple of the Jews. The city of Jerusalem was destroyed by Titus, the Roman emperor.</p>
			<p>Persia is also a part of Asia, and a very great empire: the capital city is Ispahan; the present emperor’s name, Thamas Kouli Kan: he, from a private station, raised himself to the empire by skill and courage.</p>
			<p>The empire of the Great Mogul, otherwise called Indostan, is con’iguous to Persia. It is a very great and extremely rich country, with which we carry on a considerable trade. The capital city is Agra. Here are also two vivers, famous in antiquity, the Indus, and the Ganges.</p>
			<p>China, a vast empire, is another part of Asia: it has two capital towns; one in the northern parts, called Pekin; the other towards the south, called Nankin. Tartary, which is an immense country, belongs to China. The Tartars conquered China not an hundred years ago.</p>
			<p>The Asiatic islands are very numerous: the most considerable are those of Japan, which are extremely rich.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
