<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 56</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-56" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">56</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Tumbridge, August 14, 1740</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I am very glad to hear from Mr. Maittaire, that you are so ready at scanning both Greek and Latin verses; but I hope you mind the sense of the words, as well as the quantities. The great advantage of knowing many languages, consists in understangding the sense of those nations, and authors, who speak and write those languages; but not in being able to repeat the words like a parrot, without knowing their true force and meaning. The poets require your attention and observation more than the prose authors; poetry being more out of the common way than prose compositions are. Poets have greater liberties allowed them than prose writers, which is called the <em>poetical licence</em>. Horace says, that poets and painters have an equal privilege of attempting any thing. <i xml:lang="la">Pictoribus atque poetis, quidlibet audends, semper fuit æqua potestas</i>. Fiction, that is, invention, is said to be the soul of poetry. For example; the poets give life to several inanimate things; that is, to things that have no life; as, for instance, they represent the passions, as love, fury, envy, etc. under human figures; which figures are allegorical; that is, represent the qualities and effects of those passions. Thus the poets represent Love as a little boy, called Cupid, becaunse love is the passion of young people chiefly. He is represented blind likewise; because love makes no distinction, and takes away the judgment. He has a bow and arrows, with which he is supposed to wound people, because love gives pain; and he has a pair of wings to fly with, because love is changeable, and apt to fly from one object to another. Fury likewise is represented under the figures of three women, called the three Furies, Alecto, Megæra, and Tisiphone. They are described with lighted torches or flambeaux in their hands; because rage and fury is for setting fire to every thing; they are likewise drawn with serpents hissing about their heads; because serpents are poisonous and destructive animals. Envy is described as a woman, melancholy, pale, livid, and pining; because envious people are never pleased, but always repining at other people’s happiness: she is supposed to feed upon serpents; because envious people only comfort themselves with the misfortunes of others. Ovid gives the following description of Envy:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>—Videt intus edentem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vipereas carnes, vitiorum alimenta suorum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invidiam; visâque oculos avertit. At illa</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surgit humo pigrâ: semesarumque relinquit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Corpora serpentum; passuque incgdit inerti.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Utque Deam vidit formâque armisque decoram;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ingemuit: vultumque ima ad suspiria duxit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pallor in ore sedet: macies in corpore toto:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nusquam recta acies: livent rubigine dentes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pectora felle virent: lingua est suffusa veneno,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Risus abest, nisi quem visi movere dolores.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nec fruitur somno, vigilacibus excita curis:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sed videt ingratos, intabescitque videndo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Successus hominum: carpitque et carpitur una:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suppliciumque suum est.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>This is a beautiful poetical description of that wretched, mean passion ot envy, which I hope you will. have too generous a mind ever to be infected with; but that, on tﬁe contrary, you will apply yourself to virtue and learnwng, in such a manner as to become an object of envy yourself. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
