<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 77</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-77" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">77</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>Since my last, I have changed considerably for the better; from the deserts of Spa to the pleasures of Paris; which, when you come here, you will be better able to enjoy than I am. Itis a most magnificent town, not near so big as London, but much finer; the houses being much larger, and all built of stone. It was not only much enlarged, but embellished, by the magnificence of the last king, Lewis <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XIV</span>; and a prodigious number of expensive buildings, and useful and charitable foundations, such as libraries, hospitals, schools, <abbr>etc.</abbr> will long remain the monuments of the magnificence, humanity, and good government of that prince. The people here are well bred, just as I would have you be: they are not awkwardly bashful, and ashamed, like the English; but easily civil, without ceremony. Though they are very gay and lively, they have attention to every thing, and always mind what they are about. I hope you do so too now, and that my highest expectations of your improvement will be more than answered, at my return; for I expeet to find you construe both Greek and Latin, and likewise translate into.those languages pretty readily; and also to make verses in them both, with some little invention of your own. All this may be, if you please; and I am persuaded you would not have me disappointed. As to the genius of Poetry, I own, if nature had not given it you, you cannot have it; for it is a true maxim, that <i xml:lang="la">Poeta nascitur, non fit</i>; but then, that is only as to the invention, and imagination, of a Poet; for every body can, by application, make themselves masters of the mechanical part of poetry; which consists in the numbers, rhymes, measure, and harmony of verse. Ovid was born with such a genius for poetry, that, he says, he could not help thinking in verse, whether he would or not; and that very often he spoke verses without intending it. It is much otherwise with oratory; and the maxim there is, <i xml:lang="la">Orator fit</i>; for it is certain, that, by study and application, every man can make himself a pretty good orator; eloquence depending upon observation and care. Every man, if he pleases, may choose good words instead of bad ones, may speak properly instead of improperly, may be clear and perspicuous in his recitals, instead of dark and muddy; he may have grace instead of awkwardness in his motions and gestures; and, in short, may be a very agreeable, instead of a very disagreeable speaker, if he will take care and pains. And surely it is very well worth while to take a great deal of pains to excel other men in that particular article in which they excel beasts.</p>
			<p>Demosthenes, the celebrated Greek orator, thought it so absolutely necessary to speak well, that, though he naturally stuttered, and had weak lungs, he resolved, by application and care, to get the better of those disadvantages. Accordingly, he cured his stammering, by putting small pebbles into his mouth; and strengthened his lungs gradually, by using himself every day to speak aloud and distinctly for a considerable time. He likewise went often to the sea-shore, in stormy weather, when the sea made most noise, and there spoke as loud as he could, in order to use himself to the noise and murmurs of the popular assemblies of the Athenians, before whom he was to speak. By such care, joined to the constant study of the best authors, he became at last the greatest orator of his own or any other age or country, though he was born without any one natural talent for it. Adieu! Copy Demosthenes.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
