<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 9</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-9" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">9</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-12" id="noteref-12" epub:type="noteref">12</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, September 30 O. S., 1738</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>I am very glad to hear that you are returned from your travels well, and in good humour. The three days dance which you have borne, has not, I believe, been quite so agreeable as that which you are now going to renew with your dancing-master.</p>
			<p>As I know you have a pleasure in learning, I take it for granted that you have resumed your studies; for time is precious, life short, and consequently one must not lose a single moment. A man of sense knows how to make the most of time, and puts out his whole sum either to interest or to pleasure: he is never idle, but constantly employed either in amusements or in study. It is a saying, that idleness is the mother of all vice. At least, it is certain, that laziness is the inheritance of fools; and nothing is so despicable as a sluggard. Cato the Censor, an old Roman of great virtue and much wisdom, used to say, there were but three actions of his life which he regretted. The first was, the having told a secret to his wife; the second, that he had once gone by sea when he might have gone by land; and the third, the having passed one day without doing any thing. Considering the manner in which you employ your time, I own that I am envious of the pleasure you will have in finding yourself more learned than other boys, even those who are older than yourself. What honour this will do you! What distinctions, what applauses will follow wherever you go! You must confess that this cannot but give you pleasure. The being desirous of surpassing them in merit and learning is a very laudable ambition; whereas the wishing to outshine others in rank, in expense, in clothes, and in equipage, is a silly vanity, that makes a man appear ridiculous.</p>
			<p>Let us return to our geography, in order to amuse ourselves with maps. Now the days are short, you cannot, walk out in the evening ; yet one must amuse one’s self; and there is nothing so entertaining as maps. Adieu! you are an excellent little boy.</p>
			<p>Make my compliments to your mamma.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
