<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 58</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-58" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">58</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Friday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I mentioned, in my last, description, or painting, as one of the shining marks or characteristics of Poetry. The likeness must be strong and lively; and make us almost think that we see the thing before our eyes. Thus, the following description of Hunger, or Famine, in Orvid, is so striking, that one thinks one sees some poor famished wretch.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>—Famem <em>lapidoso</em> vidit in agro,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unguibus et <em>raras</em> vellentem dentibus herbas.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>Hirtus</em> erat crinis, <em>cava</em> lumina, pallor in ore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Labra <em>incana</em> situ, <em>scabræ</em> rubigine fauces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>Dura</em> cutis, per quam spectari viscera possent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ossa sub <em>incurvis</em> extabant <em>arida</em> lumbis:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ventris erat pro ventre locus: pendere putares</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pectus, et a spinæ tantummodo crate teneri.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Observe the propriety and significancy of the epithets. <i xml:lang="la">Lapidoso</i> is the epithet to <i xml:lang="la">agro</i>; because a stony ground produces very little grass. <i xml:lang="la">Raras</i> is the epithet to <i xml:lang="la">kerbas</i>, to mark how few and how scarce the herbs were, that Famine was tearing with her teeth and nails. You will easily find out the other epithets.</p>
			<p>I will now give you an excellent piece of painting, or description, in English verse; it is in the Tragedy of Phædra and Hippolytus. Phædra was the second wife of the famous Theseus, one of the first kings of Athens: and Hippolytus was his son by his former wife. Look for the further particulars of their story in your dictionary, under the articles <i xml:lang="fr">Phedre</i> and <i xml:lang="fr">Hippolite</i>.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>So when <em>bright</em> Venus yielded up her charms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <em>blest</em> Adonis languish’d in her arms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His <em>idle</em> horn on frugrant myrtles hung;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His arrows <em>scatter’d</em>, and his bow <em>unstrung</em>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obscure, in coverts, lie his <em>dreaming</em> hounds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bay the <em>fancied</em> boar with <em>feeble</em> sounds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For nobler sports he quits the <em>savage</em> fields,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the Hero to the Lover yields.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>I have marked the epithets, that you may the better observe them. Venus is called <em>bright</em>, upon account of her beauty; Adonis is called <em>blest</em>, because Venus was in love with him; his horn is said to be <em>idle</em>, because he then laid it by, and made no use of it; the myrtles are called <em>fragrant</em>, because the myrtle is a sweet-smelling tree; moreover, the myrtle is the particular tree sacred to Venus: <em>scaltered</em> arrows, because laid by here and thers, carelessly. The bow <em>unstrung</em>; it was the custom to unstring the bow when they did not use it, and it was the stronger for it afterwards. <em>Dreaming</em> hounds: hounds that are used to hunt, often dream they are hunting; as appears by their making the same noise, only not so loud, when they sleep, as they do when they are hunting some wild beast; therefore the sounds are called <em>feeble</em>. <em>Savage</em> fields; so called from the roughness of field sports, in comparison to the tenderness and softness of love.</p>
			<p>Adonis was extremely handsome, and a great sportsman; he used to employ his whole time in hunting boars, and other wild beasts. Venus fell in love with him, and used frequently to come down to him; he was at last killed by a wild boar, to the great grief of Venus. Look for Adonis in your dictionary; for, though you have read his story in Ovid’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Metamorphoses</i>, I believe that excellent memory of yours wants refreshing. From hence, when a man is extremely handsome, he is called, by metaphor, an Adonis. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
