<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 21</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-21" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">21</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-24" id="noteref-24" epub:type="noteref">24</a>
			</h2>
			<p>The patricians, however, treated the people ungenerously, and abused the power which their rank and riches gave them. They threw into prison such of the plebeians as owed them money, and loaded them with irons. These harsh measures caused so great a discontent, that the people in a body abandoned Rome, and retired to a rising ground, three miles gistant from the city, called <i xml:lang="la">Mons Sacer</i>. Such a general defection alarmed the senate and patricians; who sent a deputation to persuade them to return, but to no purpose. At length some of the wisest and most moderate of the senators were sent on that business, with fall power to conclude a peace on the best conditions they could obtain. Agrippa who spoke in behalf of the senate, finished his discourse with a fable, which made a great impression on the minds of the people. “Formerly,” said he, “the members of the human body, enraged that they should labour for the stomach, while that, remaining idle and indolent, quietly enjoyed those pleasures which were prepared for it, agreed to do nothing: But, intending to reduce the stomach by famine, they found that all the members grew weak, and the whole body fell into an extreme inanition.”</p>
			<p>Thus he compared this intestine division of the parts of the human body, with the division that separated the people from the senate. This application pleased them so much, that a reconciliation was effected on certain conditions; te principal of which was, that the people should choose among themselves new magistrates, who were called <em>Tribunes of the people</em>. They were chosen every year, and nothing could be done without their consent. If a motion was made for preferring any law, and the tribunes of the people opposed it, the law could not pass; and they were not even obliged to allege any reason for their opposition; their merely pronouncing Veto was enough; which signifies <em>I forbid</em>. Take proper notice of this interesting epocha of the Roman history, this impertant alteration in the form of government, that secured, for some ages, the rights and privileges of the people, which the great are but too apt to infringe. This alteration happened in the year of Rome 261; twenty-one years after the expulsion of kings, and the establishment of consuls.</p>
			<p>Besides the tribunes, the people obtamed two other new annual magistrates, called <em>Ediles</em>; who were subject to the authority of the tribunes, administered justice under them, took care of the building and reparation of temples and other public structures, and inspected provisions of all kinds.</p>
			<p>Remember who were the principal magistrates of Rome. First, the Consuls; whose office was annual, and who, between them, had the power of kings; next, the Dictator, created on extraordinary emergencies, and whose office usually lasted but six months.</p>
			<p>The Tribunes of the people were annual magistrates, who acted as guardians of the rights of the commons, and protected them from the oppression of the patricians. With regard to the Ediles, I have already mentioned their functions.</p>
			<p>Some years after, two other new magistrates were created, called Censors. This office, at first, was to continue five years; but it was soon confined to a year and a half. The authority of the censors was very great; their duty was the survey of the people, the laying on of taxes, and the censure of manners. They were empowered to expel any person from the senate whom they deemed unworthy of that assembly; and degrade a Roman knight by depriving him of his horse.</p>
			<p>Not very long after, two Prætors were instituted. These magistrates were the chief officers of justice, and decided all law-suits. Here you have the list of the great magistrates of the Roman commonweslth, according to their order and institution.</p>
			<ul>
				<li>
					<p>The Consuls.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The Dictator.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The Tribunes of the People.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The Ediles.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The Censors.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The Prætors.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
