<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 7</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-7" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">7</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-9" id="noteref-9" epub:type="noteref">9</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Isleworth, June 30, 1738</p>
			<p>I now send you, my dear, a very short history of the siege of Troy. You will there see how justly the Trojans were punished for supporting Paris in his injustice.</p>
			<p>I will send you soon the histories of several kings and heroes, who were in the Grecian army, and deserve to be known. I ought to have informed you, that the city of Troy was in Asia; and that Greece is a country in Europe, which at present belongs to the Turks, and is part of what is called Turkey in Europe.</p>
			<p>Considering the manner in which you now go on, you will in time be very learned; I am even afraid lest you should soon know more than self. However, I shall forgive you, and will be very happy to be esteemed iguorant in comparison of you. Adieu.</p>
			<section id="letter-7-1" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The History of the Siege of Troy</h3>
				<p>The Trojans having refused to restore Helen to her husband, the Greeks declared war against them. Now there was in Greece a great number of kings, who furnished troops and commanded them in person. They all agreed to give the supreme command to Agamemnon, king of Mycene, and brother to Menelaus, husband to Helen.</p>
				<p>They embarked for Troy; but, meeting with contrary winds, were detained by them at Aulis. Upon which Calchas, the high priest, declared that those adverse winds were sent by the goddess Diana, who would continue them till Iphigenia, daugher to Agamemnon, was sacrificed to her. Agamemnon obeyed and sent for Iphigenia; but just as she was going to be sacrificed, Diana put a hind in her stead, and carried off Iphigenia to Tauros, where she made ber one of her priestesses.</p>
				<p>After this, the winds became favourable, and they pursued their voyage to Troy, where they landed, and began the siege; but the Trojans defended their city so well, that the siege lasted ten years. The Greeks, finding they could not take it by force, had recourse to stratagem : they made a great wooden horse, and inclosed in its body a number of armed men; after which they pretended to retire to their ships, and abandon the siege. The Trojans fell into this snare, and brought the horse into their town; which cost them dear; for, in the middle of the night, the men concealed in it got out, set fire to the city, opened the gates, and let in the Grecian army, that had returned under the walls of Troy. The Greeks sacked the city, and put all the inhabitants to the sword, except a very few who saved themselves by flight. Among these was Æneas, whom I mentioned to you before; and who fled with his father Anchises upon his shoulders, because he was old; and led his son Ascanius by the band, because he was young.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-7-2" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Story of Ajax</h3>
				<p>Ajax was one of the most valiant Greeks that went to the siege of Troy: he was son to Telamon, prince of Salamis. After Achilles had been killed, he demanded that hero’s armour, as his nearest relation; but Ulysses contested that point, and obtained the armour. Upon which Ajax went mad, and slaughtered all the sheep he met with, under a notion that they were so many Greeks. At last he killed himself.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-7-3" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Story of Nestor</h3>
				<p>Nestor was the oldest and wisest of all the Greeks who were at the siege of Troy. He was above three hundred years old, so that, on account of his experience, as well as his wisdom, the Grecian army was directed by his counsels, Even at this present time, it is said of a man, who is very old and very wise, he is a Nestor.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-7-4" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Story of Ulysses</h3>
				<p>Ulysses was another prince who went to the siege of Troy: he was king of Ithaca, and son of Laertes. His wife’s name was Penelope, with whom he was so much in love, that, unwilling to leave her, he feigned himself mad, in order to be excused going to the siege of Troy; but this device being discovered, he was compelled to embark for Ilion. He was the most artfal aud subtle of all the Greeks. During those ten years of his absence at Troy, Penelope had several lovers, but she gave encouragement to none; so that even now, when a woman is commended for chastity, she is called a Penelope.</p>
				<p>After the destruction of Troy, Ulysses was several years before he reached his kingdom, being tossed about by tempests and various accidents. The voyages of Ulysses have been the subject of a very fine poem, written by Homer in Greek, and called the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Odyssey</i>. Ulysses had one son, whose name was Telemachus.</p>
			</section>
			<p>There were also many illustrious persons on the Trojan side. Priam was their king. He was very old, and had had fifty children by his wife Hecuba. After the taking of Troy, he was killed by Pyrrhus, the son of Achilles; and Hecuba was made captive to Ulysses.</p>
			<section id="letter-7-5" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Story of Hector</h3>
				<p>Hector was son to Priam, and the bravest of the Trojans: Andromache was his wife, and his son’s name Astyanax. He resolved to engage Achilles, who killed him, and then brutally fastened his dead body to his car, and dragged it in triumph round the walls of Troy.</p>
				<p>After that city was taken, his wife Andromache became captive to Pyrrhus, the son of Achilles. He afterwards fell in love with, and married her.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-7-6" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Story of Cassandra</h3>
				<p>Cassandra, daughter of Priam, was so beautiful, that the god Apollo fell in love with her; and gave her the power of foretelling future events, upon condition of her compliance with his desires. But, as she deceived the god, by not gratifying his wishes, he ordered matters in such a manner, that, although she always foretold trath, nobody believed her. It is even now said of a person who foretels the consequences of an affair, and is not believed, she is a Cassandra.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-7-7" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Story of Æneas</h3>
				<p>Æneas was a Trojan prince, son of Anchises, and of the goddess Venus, who protected him in all the dangers he underwent. His wife’s name was Creusa; by whom he had a son called Ascanius, or Iulus. When Troy was burnt, he made his escape, and carried his father Anchises upon his back; for which reason he was surnamed the pious Æneas.</p>
				<p>You already know what happened to him with Dido at Carthage. After that he went to Italy, where, having killed his rival Turnus, he married Lavinis, daughter to king Latinus.</p>
				<p>Fros Æneas and Lavinia was descended Romaulus, the founder of Rome.</p>
			</section>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
