<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 41</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-41" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">41</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-35" id="noteref-35" epub:type="noteref">35</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, October 8, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>I am charmed with all your letters; that which you wrote without help is very natural, consequently very good. Your English translation is a very just one; and as for the Latin, considering how short a time you have been learning that language, I do not require it to be any better. In short, hitherto you have gone on as well as possible, only continue. More particularly, I congratulate you on the <i xml:lang="fr">accuratissimé</i> which Mr. Maittaire has added to your last performances; and it is very flattering to be deserving of such commendations. I am sure that single word must have afforded you more pleasure than two hours’ play. Besides, how exceedingly satisfactory it is to have done one’s duty in any respect? Nothing is so comfortable as a good conscience; that only can make us easy and happy. Pray do you know what conscience is? It is what we feel when we have said or done any thing. For instance, if I had injured any person, or had told a lie, though I might not be found out, yet I should feel myself guilty; conscience would torment me, and I must be unbappy. You have certainly read, in Orvid’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Metamorphoses</i>, the fable of Prometheus, who stole fire from heaven to form man. Jupiter punished him, by chaining hirm to Mount Caucasus, and by sending a vulture that incessantly gnaws his liver. This fable is an ingenious allegory, pointing out the perpetual torments of a bad conscience. Prometheus had stolen; and the vulture that continually gnaws his liver means his conscience, which continually reproaches him with that crime. This is called an allegory⁠—when, to represent one thing, we do it by means of another. Poets often make use of allegories. Adieu.</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:postscript">Translate the following letter into English:<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-36" id="noteref-36" epub:type="noteref">36</a></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter" xml:lang="la">
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Mon cher Papa,</p>
				<p>Il est vrai que vous me donnez des louanges: mais il est vrai aussi que vous me les faites payer; car vous me faites travailler comme un forçat pour les acquérir. N’importe, on ne peut pas achéter la gloire trop cher. Voila comme Alexandre le Grand a pensé; et voila comme pense aussi Philippe le Petit.</p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Votre, etc.</p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:postscript">Forçat en Anglois est, <em xml:lang="en">a galley slave</em>.</p>
			</blockquote>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
