<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 87</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-87" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">87</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Monday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>When I wrote to you last, we were in Egypt.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-52" id="noteref-52" epub:type="noteref">52</a> Now, if you please, we will travel a little to the north-east of Egypt, and visit the famous city of Jerusalem, which we read so much of both in the Old and the New Testament. It is the chief town of Judea, or Palestine, a country in the kingdom of Syria; as you will find, if you look into the map of Asia. It was anciently a very great and considerable city; where the kings of Judea resided, and where Solomon built the famous temple of the Jews. It was often taken and plundered by neighbouring princes; but the Babylonians were the first that utterly destroyed it. Both the town and the temple were afterwards rebuilt by the Jews, under Esdras and Zorobabel; but, at last, were entirely burnt and ruined by the Roman emperor Titus. The emperor Adrian rebuilt it, in the year <time>132</time>; since when it has been taken and plundered by the Saracens, retaken by the Christians, and now, at last, belongs to the Turks. It is a very inconsiderable place at present, and only famous upon account of what it has been formerly: for Jesus Christ preached the Christian religion there, and was crucified by the Jews upon Mount Calvary. In the eighth century the Saracens got possession of it; and in the eleventh century many Christian princes in Europe joined, and went with a considerable army to take it from the Saracens. This war was called the Holy War; and, as all those who went to it wore a cross upon their breasts, it was called a Croisado. The ignorance and superstition of those times made them think it meritorious to take the land, where Jesus Christ lived and died, out of the hands of Infidels; that is, those who did not believe in Christ: but it was, in truth, a notorious piece of injustice, to go and attack those who did not meddle with them.</p>
			<p>Not far from Judea, you will find, in the map, the vast country of Arabia; which is divided into three parts: Arabia Deserta, or the Desert, so called because it is hardly inhabited, and has immense deserts, where you see nothing but sand: Arabia Petræa, or the Stony: and Arabia Felix, or the Happy; because it is a fine fruitful country, and produces gums and aromatics of all kinds. Hence comes the common saying, “All the sweets of Arabia,” when you would eay that any thing has a very fine smell. Arabia Felix has two famous towns; Medina and Mecca; because the famous impostor Mahomet, the great prophet of the Turks, was born at Medina, and buried at Mecca, where his tomb is now, to which the Turks often go in pilgrimage. Pilgrimage is a journey that people take to any place, on a religious account; and the person who takes that journey is called a pilgrim.</p>
			<p>The Roman Catholics often go pilgrimages to our Lady of Loretto in Italy, and sometimes even to Jerusalem, in order to pray before a cross, or the figure of some saint or other; but these are all follies of weak and ignorant people. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
