<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 80</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-80" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">80</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Paris, November 4 N. S., 1741</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>Our correspondence has been for some time suspended, by the hurry and dissipation of this place, which left me no time to write; and it will soon cease entirely by my return to England, which will be, I believe, in about a fortnight. I own I am impatient to see the great progress which I am persuaded you have made, both in your learning and behaviour, during my six months’ absence. I join behaviour with learning, because it is almost as necessary; and they should always go together, for their mutual advantage. Mere learning without good-breeding is pedantry, and good-breeding without learning is but frivolous; whereas learning adds solidity to good-breeding, and good-breeding gives charms and graces to learning.</p>
			<p>This place is, without dispute, the seat of true good-breeding; the people here are civil without ceremony, and familiar without rudeness. They are neither disagreeably forward, nor awkwardly bashful and shamefaced; the speak to their superiors with as little concern, and as much ease, though with more respect, as to their inferiors; and they speak to their inferiors with as much civility, though less respect, as to their superiors. They despise us, and with reason, for our ill-breeding: on the other hand, we despise them for their want of learning, and we are in the right of it; so that you see the sure way to be admired by both nations, is to join learning and good-breeding. As to learning, consider that you have now but one year more with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Maittaire, before you go to Westminster school, and that your credit will depend upon the place you are put in there at first; and if you can, at under eleven years old, be put in the fourth form, above boys of thirteen or fourteen, it will give people very favourable impressions of you, and be of great advantage to you for the future. As to good-breeding, you cannot attend to it too soon, or too much; it must be acquired while young, or it is never quite easy; and if acquired young, will always last and be habitual. Horace says, <i xml:lang="la">quo semel est imbuta recens servabit odorem testa diu</i>: to shew the advantage of giving people good habits and impressions in their youth. I say nothing to you now as to honour, virtue, truth, and all moral duties, which are to be strictly observed at all ages and at all times; becanse I am sure you are convinced of the indispensable necessity of practising them all; and of the infamy, as well as the guilt of neglecting, or acting contrary to any of them. May you excel in them all, that you may be loved by every body as much as you are hitherto by your, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
