<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 65</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-65" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">65</span>
			</h2>
			<p>You know so much more, and learn so much better than any boy of your age, that you see I do not treat you like a boy, but write to you upon subjects fit for men to think and consider of. When I send you examples of the virtues of the ancients, it is not only to inform you of those pieces of history, but to <em>animate</em> and excite you to follow those examples. You there see the advantages of virtue; how it is sure (sooner or later) to be rewarded, and with what praises and <em>encomiums</em> the virtuous actions of the great men of antiquity have been perpetuated, and transmitted down to us. Julius Cæsar, though a tyrant, and guilty of that great crime of enslaving his country, had, however, some virtues; and was distingunished for his clemency and humanity; of which there is this remarkable instance⁠—Marcellus, a man of <em>consideration</em> in Rome, had taken part with Pompey in the civil war between him and Cæsar, and bad even acted with <em>zeal</em> and <em>acrimony</em> against Cæsar. However, after Casar had conquered Pompey, and was returned to Rome victorious, the Senate <em>interceded</em> with him in favour of Marcellus, whom he not only pardoned, but took into his friendship. Cicero made an oration on purpose to compliment Cæsar upon this act of goodnature and generosity; in which, among many other things, he tells him, that he looks upon his pardoning Marcellus as a greater action than all his vctories: his words in Latin are these: “<i xml:lang="la">Domuisti gentes immanitate barbaras, multitudine innumerabiles, locis infinitas, omni copiarum genere abundantes: sed tamen ea vicisti, quæ et naturam et conditionem ut vinci possent, habebant. Nulla est enim tanta vis, tanta copia, quae non ferro ac viribus debilitari frangique possit. Verum animum vincere; iracundiam cohibere; victoriam temperare; adversarium nobilitate, ingeuio, virtute præstantem non modo extollere jacentem, sed etiam amplificare ejus pristinam dignitatem: hæc qui faciat, non ego eum cum summis viris comparo, sed simillimum Deo judico</i>.”</p>
			<p>It is certain that humanity is the particular characteristic of a great mind;
little vicious minds are fall of anger and revenge, and are incapable of feeling the exalted pleasure of forgiving their enemies, and of bestowing marks
of favour and generosity upon those of whom they have gotten the better.
Adieu.</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:postscript">I have underlined (<em>printed in italics</em>) those words that I think you
do not understand, to put you in mind to ask the meaning of them.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
