<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 50</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-50" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">50</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Langford, June 9, 1740</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I write to you now, in the supposition that you continue to deserve my attention, as much as you did when I left London; and that Mr. Maittaire would commend you as much now, as he did the last time he was with me: for otherwise, you know very well, that I should not concern myself about you. Take care, therefore, that, when I come to town, I may not find myself mistaken in the good opinion I entertained of youn in my absence.</p>
			<p>I hope you have got the linnets and bullfinches you so much wanted; and I recommend the bullfinches to your imitation. Bullfinches, you must know, have no natural note of their own, and never sing unless taught, but will learn tunes better than any other birds. This they do by attention and memory; and you may observe, that, while they are taught, they listen with great care, and never jump about and kick their heels. Now I really think it would be a great shame for you to be outdone by your own bullfinch.</p>
			<p>I take it for granted, that, by your late care and attention, you are now perfect in Latin verses: and that you may at present be called, what Horace desired to be called, <i xml:lang="la">Romanæ fidicen Lyræ</i>. Your Greek too, I dare say, keeps pace with your Latin, and you have all your paradigms <i xml:lang="la">ad unguem</i>.</p>
			<p>You cannot imagine what alterations and improvements I expect to find every day, now that you are more than <i xml:lang="la">octennis</i>; and, at this age, <i xml:lang="la">non progredi</i> would be <i xml:lang="la">regredi</i>, which would be very shameful.</p>
			<p>Adieu! Do not write to me, for I shall be in no settled place to receive letters while I am in the country.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
