<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 106</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-106" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">106</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Dublin, February 18, 1746</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I received your letter, of the 11th, with great pleasure, it being well written in every sense. I am glad to find that you begin to taste Horace; the more you read him the better you will like him. His <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Art of Poetry</i> is, in my mind, his master-piece: and the rules he there lays down are applicable to almost every part of life. To avoid extremes, to observe propriety, to consult one’s own strength, and to be consistent from beginning to end, are precepts as useful for the man as for the poet. When you read it, have this observation in your mind, and you will find it holds true throughout. You are extremely welcome to my Tacitus, provided you make a right use of it; that is, provided you read it; but I doubt it is a little too difficult for you yet. He wrote in the time of Trajan, when the Latin language had greatly degenerated from the purity af the Augustan age. Besides, he has a peculiar conciseness of style, that often renders him obscure. But he knew, and describes mankind perfectly well; and that is the great and useful knowledge. You cannot apply yourself too soon, nor too carefully to it. The more you know men, the less you will trust them. Young people have commonly an unguarded openness and frankness; they contract friendships easily, are credulous to professions, and are always the dupes of them. If you would have your secret kept, keep it yourself; and, as it is very possible that your friend may one day or other become your enemy, take care not to put yourself in his power, while he is your friend. The same arts and tricks that boys will now try upon you, for balls, bats, and balfpence, men will make use of with you when you are a man, for other purposes.</p>
			<p>Your French epigram is a pretty one. I send you another in return, which was made ypon a very insignificant, obscure fellow, who left a sum of money in his will, for an epitaph to be left upon him.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem" xml:lang="fr">
				<p>
					<span>Colas est mort de maladie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tu veux que j’en pleure le sort,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Que diable veux-tu que j’en dise?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Colas vivoit! Colas est mort.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">It exposes perfectly well the silly vanity of a fellow, who, though he had never done any thing to be spoken of in his lifetime, wanted to have something said of him after his death. I will give you, into the bargain, a very good English epitaph, upon a virtuous and beautiful young lady:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Underneath this stone doth lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As much virtue as could die;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, when alive, did vigour give</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To as much beauty as could live.</span>
					<br/>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Adieu! Work hard; for your day of trial draws near.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
