<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 4</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-4" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">4</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-6" id="noteref-6" epub:type="noteref">6</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Isleworth, June 19, 1738</p>
			<p>You are the best boy in the world, and your last translation is still better than the former. This is just as it ought to be, to improve every day more and more. Although I now love you dearly, if you continue to go on so, I shall love you still more tenderly: if you improve and grow learned, every one will be fond of you, and desirous of your company; whereas, ignorant people are shunned and despised. In order that I may not be ignorrant myself, I read a great deal. The other day I went through the history of Dido, which I will now tell you.</p>
			<p>Dido was the daughter of Belus, king of Tyre, and was married to Sicheus, whom she dearly loved. But as Sicheus had immense riches, Pygmalion, Dido’s brother, had put him to death and siezed his treasures. Dido, fearful lest her brother might kill her too, fled to Africa, where she built the fine city of Carthage. Now, it happed that, just about the same time, Æneas also fled from the city of Troy, which had been taken and burnt by the Greeks; and as he was going, with many other Trojans, in his ships to Italy, he was thrown by a storm upon the coast of Africa, and landed at Carthage. Dido received him very kindly, and gave him leave to stay till he refitted his fleet: but, unfortunately for her, she became in love with him. Æneas (as you may easily believe) was not cruel; so that matters were soon settled. When the ships were ready, Æneas wanted to set sail for Italy, to which the gods had ordered him, that he might be the founder of Rome; but Dido opposed his departure, and reproached him with ingratitude, and the favours he had received. However, he left her, ran off in the night, and put to sea. Poor Dido, in despair at being abandoned by the man she loved, had a great pile of wood set on fire, threw herself into the flames, and was burnt to death. When you are older, you will read all this story in Latin, written by Virgil; who as made a fine poem of it, caled the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Æneid</i>. If you should abandon Miss Pinkerton for Miss Williams, do you think she will do the same? Adieu, my dear!</p>
			<p>I will send you a very pritty epigram upon the subject of Dido; you may easily learn it by heart.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>Infelix Dido! nulli bene nupta marito;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hoc pereunte fugis, hoc fugiente peris.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
