<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 73</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-73" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">73</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-43" id="noteref-43" epub:type="noteref">43</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Aix-la-Chapelle, June 8 N. S.</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>It is now four days since I arrived here at Aix-la-Chapelle; from whence I take the liberty of assuring you of my respects; not doubting but you will be so good to forgive me if I importune you too often with my letters. I know your time is valuable, and am sensible, that it would be pity to interrupt the course of your studies, which I do not question but you pursue with great success and attention. However, setting aside all raillery, I hope you learn as you ought; and that Mr. Maittaire is satisfied: otherwise I can assure you, that I shall be very much dissatisfied.</p>
			<p>A propos of learning; I must tell you, that I have seen at Brussels, a little boy of about your age; he is son to Comte de l’ Annoy; he knows Latin perfectly; he plays in comedy, and declaims in French tragedy most exquisitely well; but this is because he applies, and retains whatever he has once learned. Besides all this, he is very polite; and in the midst of a numerous company, whom he did not know, he was not in the least disconcerted, but spoke, and answered each person with good manners, and with ease.</p>
			<p>This town is large, but rather ugly; it is called in Latin <i xml:lang="la">Aquisgranum</i>. It is the first imperial and free city of the empire, and as such has the privilege of choosing its own magistrates, is governed by them, and is in possession of other rights, that cannot be infringed by the emperor. In the year <time>800</time>, Charlemagne was here crowned Emperor; and the crown used in that ceremony is still shewn in the cathedral of this place. It is not famous for any thing but its mineral waters, which occasion a great resort of people: they are very heating, and disagreeable to the taste, having the savour of rotten eggs.</p>
			<p>The imperial towns have a voice at the diet of the empire, that is held at Ratisbon; which is the assembly of the empire: thither the electors, princes, and imperial towns send their deputies, to settle the affairs of the empire, jointly with the emperor, as our parliament does in England. By this you may see, that the empire of Germany is a free state, in which no law can be made without the consent of the emperor, the electors, the sovereign princes, and the imperial towns. You ought to know the different forms of government of the different countries in Europe; and when you read the histories of them, bestow a particular attention upon that circumstance. Adieu for this time.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
