<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 109</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-109" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">109</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Dublin, March 23, 1746</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>You are a mere Œdipus, and I do not believe a Sphynx could puzzle you; though, to say the truth, consciousness is a great help to discoveries of that kind. I am glad you are sensible the book I mentjoned requires more than one new edition before it can be correct; but as you promise to co-operate with me, I am in great hopes of publishing a pretty good edition of it in five or six years’ time. I must have the text very correct, and the character very fair, both which must be chiefly your care: as for the notes, which I fancy you will desire should be bank-notes, I believe I must provide them; which I am very willing to do, if the book deserves them.</p>
			<p>You call upon me for the partiality of an author to his own works; but take this along with you, that the worst authors are always the most partial to their own works; but a good author is the severest critic of his own compositions; therefore, as I hope that, in this case, I am a good author, I can tell you I shall always hbe correcting, and never think my work perfect enough. To leave allegory, which should never be long, (and, it may be, this has been too long,) I tell you very seriously, that I both expect and require a great deal from you, and if you should disappoint me, I would not advise you to expect much from me. I ask nothing of you but what is entirely in your own power; to be an honest, a learned, and a well-bred man. As for the first, I cannot, I will not doubt it; I think you know already the infamy, the horrors, and the misfortunes that always attend a dishonest and dishonourable man. As to learning, that is wholly in your own power; application will bring it about; and you must have it. Good breeding is the natural result of common sense and common observation. Common sense points out civility, and observation teaches you the manner of it, which makes it good breeding. To tell you the truth, I do not know an thing you fall in so much as in this last; and a very great failing it is. Though you have not yet seen enough of the world to be well-bred, you have sense enough to know what it is to be civil; but I cannot say that you endeavour much to be so. It is with difficulty that you bring yourself to do the common offices of civility, which should always seem willing and natural.</p>
			<p>Pray tell your Mamma, that I really have not had time to answer her letter; but that I will see what I can do about it when I return to England; and tell her too that she is extremely welcome to send as many letters as ever she pleases, under my cover.</p>
			<p>Send me, in your next, that Ode of Horace that begins with <i xml:lang="la">Mater seva</i> <i xml:lang="la">Cupidinum</i>. Good-night, Sir!</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
