<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 93</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-93" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">93</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-53" id="noteref-53" epub:type="noteref">53</a>
			</h2>
			<p>England was originally called Britain, when the Romans, under Julius Cæsar, first invaded it; the Romans continued in Britain about four hundred years.</p>
			<p>The Romans quitted Britain of themselves; and then the Scotch, who went by the name of the Picts, (from <i xml:lang="la">pingere</i> to paint,) because they painted their skins, attacked the Britons, and beat them; upon which the Britons called over the Angli, a people of Saxony, to their assistance against the Picts. The Angli came and beat the Picts; but then beat the Britons too, and made themselves masters of the kingdom, which from their own name they called Anglia, from whence it was called England.</p>
			<p>These Saxons divided England into seven kingdoms; which were called the Saxon Heptarchy, from <i xml:lang="grk">εππα</i>, seven, and <i xml:lang="grk">αρχων</i>, chief.</p>
			<p>Afterwards the Danes invaded England, and made themselves masters of it; but were soon driven out again, and the Saxon government restored.</p>
			<p>The last invasion of England was by the Normans, under William the Conqueror, in <time>1066</time>; that is, about seven hundred years ago.</p>
			<p>Though William came in by conquest, he did not pretend to govern absolutely as a conqueror, but thought it his safest way to conform himself to the constitution of this country. He was a great man.</p>
			<p>His son, William Rufus, so called because he had red hair, succeeded him. He was killed accidentally by one of his own people as bebwas hunting. He died without children, and was succeeded by his younger brother, Henry the First.</p>
			<p>Henry the First was a great king. As he had no sons, he was succeeded by his nephew Stephen.</p>
			<p>Stephen was attacked by the Empress Maud, who was daughter to Henry the First, and had consequently a better right to the crown than Stephen. He agreed to a treaty with her, by which she let him reign for his life; and he obliged himself to settle the crown after his death upon her son, Henry the Second, who in effect succeeded him.</p>
			<p>Henry the Second was a very great king; he conquered Ireland, and annexed it to the crown of England. He was succeeded by his son Richard the First.</p>
			<p>Richard the First was remarkable by nothing, but by his playing the fool in a Croisado to Jerusalem; a prevailing folly of those times, when the Christians thought to merit Heaven, by taking Jerusalem from the Turks. He was succeeded by John.</p>
			<p>King John was oppressive and tyrannical; so that the people rose against him, and obliged him to give them a charter, confirming all their liberties and privileges: which charter subsists to this day, and is called Magna Charta. He was succeeded by his son, Henry the Third.</p>
			<p>Henry the Third had a long but troublesome reign, being in perpetual disputes with the people and the nobles; sometimes beating, sometimes beaten. He was succeeded by his son, Edward the First.</p>
			<p>Edward the First was one of the greatest kings of England. He conquered the principality of Wales, and annexed it to the crown of England; since which time the eldest son of the king of England has always been Prince of Wales. He beat the Scotch several times. Many of our best laws were made in his reign. His son, Edward the Second, succeeded him.</p>
			<p>Edward the Second was a wretched, weak creature, and always governed by favourites; so that he was deposed, put into prison, and soon afterwards put to death.</p>
			<p>His son, Edward the Third, succeeded him; and was one of the greatest kings England ever had. He declared war with France; and with an army of thirty thousand men beat the French army of sixty thousand men, at the famous battle of Crecy, in Picardy, where above thirty thousand French were killed. His son, who was called the Black Prince, beat the French again at the battle of Poictiers, and took the king of France prisoner. The French had above threescore thousand men; and the Black Prince had but eight thousand. This king founded the order of the Garter. His son, the Black Prince, died before him, so that he was succeeded by his grandson, Richard the Second, son to the Black Prince.</p>
			<p>This Richard the Second had none of the virtues of his father, or grandfather; but was governed by favourites; was profuse, necessitous, and endeavoured to make himself absolute; so that he was deposed, put into prison, and soon after put to death by Henry the Fourth, who succeeded him, and who was the first of the House of Lancaster.</p>
			<p>Henry the Fourth was descended from Edward the Third, by John of Gaunt, duke of Lancaster, and had consequently no hereditary right to the Crown. He beat both the Scotch and the Welsh. He was a considerable man.</p>
			<p>Henry the Fifth, his son, succeeded him; and was, without dispute, one of the greatest kings of England; though he promised little while he was Prince of Wales, for he led a dissolute and riotous life, even robbing sometimes upon the highway. But, as soon as he came to the throne, he left those shameful courses, declared war to France, and entirely routed the French army, six times more numerous than his own, at the famous battle of Agincourt, in Picardy. He died before he had completed the conquest of France; and was succeeded by his son, Henry the Sixth, a minor, who was left under the guardianship of his uncles, the dukes of Bedford and Gloucester.</p>
			<p>Henry the Sixth was so little like his father, that he soon lost all that his father had got; and, though crowned king of France, at Paris, was driven out of France; and, of all his father’s conquests, retained only Calais. It was a remarkable accident that gave the first turn to the successes of the English, in France. They were besieging the town of Orleans, when an ordinary girl, called Joanne d’Arques, took it into her head that God had appointed her to drive the English out of France. Accordingly she attacked, at the head of the French troops, and entirely beat, the English. The French call her, <i xml:lang="fr">La Pucelle d’Orleans</i>. She was afterwards taken by the English, and shamefully burnt for a witch. Henry had not better success in England; for being a weak man himself, and entirely governed by his wife, he was deposed by Edward the Fourth, of the House of York, who had the hereditary right to the Crown.</p>
			<p>Edward the Fourth did nothing considerable, except against the Scotch, whom he beat. He intended to have attempted the recovery of France; but was prevented by his death. He left two sons under age; the eldest of which was proclaimed king, by the name of Edward the Fifth. But the Duke of Gloucester, their uncle and guardian, murdered them both, to make way for himself to the throne. He was Richard the Third, commonly called Crook-Back Richard, because he was crooked.</p>
			<p>Richard the Third was so cruel and sanguinary, that he soon became universally hated. Henry the Seventh, of the House of Lancaster, profited of the general hatred of the people to Richard, raised an army, and beat Richard at the battle of Bosworth-field, in Leicestershire, where Richard was killed.</p>
			<p>Henry the Seventh was proclaimed king, and soon after married the daughter of Edward the Fourth; re-uniting thereby the pretensions of both the Houses of York and Lancaster; or, as they were then called, the White Rose and the Red; the White Rose being the arms of the House of York; and the Red Rose, the arms of the House of Lancaster. Henry the Seventh was a sullen, cunning, and covetous king, oppressing his subjects to squeeze money out of them; and accordingly died unlamented, and immensely rich.</p>
			<p>Henry the Eighth succeeded his father. His reign deserves your attention; being full of remarkable events, particularly that of the Reformation.</p>
			<p>He was as profuse as his father was avaricious, and soon spent in idle shew and pleasures the great sums his father left him. He was violent and impetuous in all his passions, in satisfying which, he stopped at nothing. He had married, in his father’s lifetime, Catharine, princess of Spain, the widow of his elder brother Prince Arthur; but growing weary of her, and being in love with Anne Boleyn, he was resolved to be divorced from his wife, in order to marry Anne. The Pope would not consent to this divorce; at which Henry was so incenseds that he threw off the Pope’s authority in England, declared himself head of the church, and divorced himself. You must know, that in those days of poperz and ignorance, the Pope pretended to be above all kings, and to depose them when he thought proper. He was universal head of the church, and disposed of bishoprics and ecclesiastical matters in every country in Europe; to which unreasonable pretensions all princes had been fools enough more or less to submit. But Henry put an end to those pretensions in England, and resolved to retain no part of popery that was inconsistent either with his passions, or his interest; in consequence of which, he dissolved the monasteries and religious houses in England, took away their estates, kept some for himself, and distributed the rest among the considerable people of this country. This was the beginning of the Reformation in England, and happened about two hundred years ago. As it is necessary you should know what the Reformation is, I must tell you, that a little more than two hundred years ago, all Europe were Papists, till one Martin Luther, a German Augustine monk, began in Germany to reform religion from the errors, absurdities, and superstitions of Popery. Many German princes, particularly the elector of Saxony, embraced his doctrines, and protested against the Church of Rome, from whence they were called Protestants. Read the article Luther in your Dictionary.</p>
			<p>To return to Henry the Eighth; he married six wives, one after another, two of which he beheaded for adultery, and put away two because he did not like them. He was for some time governed absolutely by his first minister, Cardinal Wolsey, who was at last disgraced, and broke his heart.</p>
			<p>He was succeeded by his son, Edward the Sixth, who was but nine years old; but his guardians being Protestants, the Reformation was established in England. He died at fifteen years old, and was succeeded by his half-sister, Mary.</p>
			<p>Queen Mary was daughter of Henry the Eighth, by his first wife, Catharine of Spain. She was a zealous and cruel Papist, imprisoned and burnt the Protestants, and did all she could to root out the Reformation in England; but did not reign long enough to do it. She was married to Philip the Second of Spain, but having no children, was succeeded by her sister, Queen Elizabeth.</p>
			<p>The reign of Queen Elizabeth is, without dispute, the most glorious in the English history. She established the Reformation, encouraged trade and manufactures, and carried the nation to a pitch of happiness and glory it had never seen before, and has never seen since. She defeated the fleet which Philip the Second of Spain sent to invade England, and which he called the Invincible Armada. She assisted the Dutch, who had revolted from the tyranny of the same king’s goveriment; and contributed to the establishment of the Republic of the United Provinces. She was the support of the Protestant cause in Europe. In her reign we made our first settlement in America, which was Virginia, so called from her, because she was a virgin, and never married. She beheaded her cousin Mary, Queen of Scotland, who was continually forming plots to dethrone her, and usurp the kingdom. She reigned four-and-forty years, with glory to herself, and advantage to her kingdom. Lord Burleigh was her wise and honest minister during almost her whole reign. As she died without children, she was succeeded by her nearest relation, King James the First, the son of Mary, Queen of Scots, who was beheaded.</p>
			<p>With King James the First the family of the Stuarts came to the throne, and supplied England successively with four very bad kings. King James had no one of the virtues of his predecessor Queen Elizabeth; but had all the faults and vices that a man, <em>or even a king</em>, can have. He was a most notorious coward and liar, a formal pedant; thinking and calling himself wise, without being so in any degree; wanting always to make himself absolute, without either parts or courage to compass it. He was the bubble of his favourites, whom he enriched, and always in necessity himself. His reign was inglorious and shameful, and laid the foundation of all the mischief that happened under the reign of his son and successor, King Charles the First.</p>
			<p>Observe, that till King James the First, Scotland had its own kings, and was independent of England; but he being king of Scotland when Queen Elizabeth died, England and Scotland have from that time been united under the same kings.</p>
			<p>King Charles the First succeeded his father King James the First; and, though he was nothing very extraordinary, was still much better than his father, having both more sense and more courage. He married a princess of France, daughter to Henry the Great; who, being a zealous Papist, and a busy, meddling woman, bad an influence over him, which contributed much to his misfortunes. He had learned from his father to fancy that he had a right to be absolute; and had the courage that his father wanted to try for it. This made him quarrel with parliaments, and attempt to raise money without them, which no king has a right to do: but there was then spirit and virtue enough in the nation to oppose it. He would likewise, by the advice of a hot-headed parson, (Archbishop Laud,) establish the Common Prayer through the whole kingdom by force, to which the Presbyterians would not submit. These, and many other violences, raised a civil war in the nation, in which he was beaten and taken prisoner. A high court of justice was erected on purpose for his trial, where be was tried and condemned for high treason against the constitution; and was beheaded publicly, about one hundred years ago, at Whitehall, on the <time datetime="1649-01-30">30th of January</time>. This action is much blamed; but, however, if it had not happened, we had had no liberties left.</p>
			<p>After Charles’s death, the parliament governed for a time, but the army soon took the power out of their hands; and then Oliver Cromwell, a private gentleman of Huntingdonshire, and a colonel in that army, usurped the government, and called himself the Protector. He was a very brave and a very able man; and carried the honour of England to the highest pitch of glory; making himself both feared and respected by all the powers in Europe. He got us the island of Jamaica, from the Spaniards, and Dunkirk, which Charles the Second shamefully sold afterwards to the French. He died in about ten years after he had usurped the government, which he left to his son Richard, who, being a blockhead, could not keep it; so that King Charles the Second was restored, by the means of General Monk, who was then at the head of the army.</p>
			<p>King Charles the Second, who, during the life of Cromwell, had been wandering about from one country to another, instead of profiting by his adversities, had only collected the vices of all the countries he had been in. He had no religion, or, if any, was a Papist; and his brother, the Duke of York, was a declared one. He gave all he had to whores and favourites; and was so necessitous, that he became a pensioner to France. He lived uneasily with his people and his parliament; and was at last poisoned. As he died without children, he was succeeded by his brother, the Duke of York, then King James the Second; who was of a sour, cruel, and tyrannical disposition, and a zealous Papist. He resolved at once to be above the laws, make himself absolute, and establish popery; upon which the nation, very wisely and justly, turned him out, before he had reigned quite four years; and called the Prince of Orange from Holland, who bad married King James’s eldest daughter, Mary.</p>
			<p>The Prince and Princess of Orange were then declared by parliament King and Queen of England, by the title of King Willian the Third, and Queen Mary; and this is called the Revolution.</p>
			<p>Queen Mary was an excellent princess; but she died seven years before King William, without children. King William was a brave and warlike king: he would have been glad of more power than he ought to have; but his parliaments kept him within due bounds against his will. To the Revolution we again owe our liberties. King William, dying without children, was succeeded by Queen Anne, the second daughter of King James the Second.</p>
			<p>The reign of Queen Anne was a glorious one, by the success of her arms against France, under the Duke of Marlborough. As she died without children, the family of the Stuarts ended in her, and the crown went to the House of Hanover, as the next Protestant family; so that she was succeeded by King. George the First, father of the present king.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
