<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 20</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-20" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">20</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-23" id="noteref-23" epub:type="noteref">23</a>
			</h2>
			<p>We are now come to an important epocha of the Roman history; I mean the establishment of a free government.</p>
			<p>Royalty being banished Rome, it was resolved to create, instead of a king, two Consuls, whose authority should be annual; or, in other words, was to last no longer than one year. The right of electing the consuls was left to the people; but they could choose them only from among the patricians; that is, from among men of the first rank. The two consuls were jointly invested with the same power the kings had before, with this essential difference, that their power ended with the year; and at the expiration of that term, they were obliged to give an account of their regency to the people; a sure means to prevent the abuse of it. They were called consuls, from the Latin verb <i xml:lang="la">consulere</i>, to counsel; which intimated their being counsellors to the republic.</p>
			<p>The first consuls elected were <abbr class="name">L.</abbr> Junius Brutus, and <abbr class="name">P.</abbr> Collatinus, Lucretia’s husband. The consuls held the same badges of dignity as the kings, excepting the crown and sceptre. They had the purple robe, and the curule chair, being a chair of ivory, set upon wheels. The cousuls, senate, and people, took a solemn oath, never to recal Tarquin, or suffer a king in Rome.</p>
			<p>Take notice of the form of the Roman government. The power was divided between the consuls, senate, and people; each had their rights and privileges; and, from the time of that wise establishment, Rome exalted herself, with a rapid progress, to such a high point of perfection and excellency, as is scarce to be conceived.</p>
			<p>Remember, that the monarchical government lasted two hundred and forty-four years.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
