<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 40</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-40" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">40</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Monday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I have lately mentioned chronology to you, though slightly; but, as it is very necessary you should know something of it, I will repeat it now a little more fully, in order to give you a better notion of it.</p>
			<p>Chronology is the art of measuring and distinguishing time, or the doctrine of epochas, which, you know, are particular and remarkable periods of time.</p>
			<p>The word chronology is compounded of the Greek words <i xml:lang="grk">χρουος</i>, which signifies <em>time</em>, and <i xml:lang="grk">λογος</i>, which signifies <em>discourse</em>. Chronology and geography are called the two eyes of history, because history can never be clear and well understood without them. History relates fcts; chronology tells us at what time, or when, those facts were done; and geography shews us in what place or country they were done. The Greeks measured their time by Olympiads, which was a space of four years, called in Greek <i xml:lang="grk">Ολυμπιας</i>. This method of computation had its rise from the Olympic Games, which were celebrated the beginning of every fifth year, on the banks of the river Alpheus, near Olympis, a city in Greece. The Greeks, for example, would say, that such a thing happened in such a year of such an Olympiad; as, for instance, that Alexander the Great died in the first year of the 114th Olympiad. The first Olympiad was 774 years before Christ; so, consequently, Christ was born in the first year of the 195th Olympiad.</p>
			<p>The period, or era, from whence the Romans reckoned their time, was from the building of Rome; which they marked thus, ab <abbr>U. C.</abbr> that is, <i xml:lang="la">ab Urbe conditâ</i>. Thus, the kings were expelled, and the consular government established, the 244th ab <abbr>U. C.</abbr> that is, of Rome.</p>
			<p>All Europe now reckons from the great epocha of the birth of Jesus Christ, which was 1738 years ago; so that, when any body asks, in what year did such or such a thing happen, they mean, in what year since the birth of Christ.</p>
			<p>For example: Charlemain, in French Charlemagne, was made emperor of the West in the year <time>800</time>; that is, 800 years after the birth of Christ; but, if we speak of any event or historical fact that happened before that time, we then say, it happened so many years before Christ. For instance, we say Rome was built 750 years before Christ.</p>
			<p>The Turks date from their Hegira, which was the year of the flight of their false prophet, Mahomet, from Mecca; and, as we say that such a thing was done in such a year of Christ; they say, such a thing was done in such a year of the Hegira. Their Hegira begins in the 622nd year of Christ, that is, above 1100 years ago.</p>
			<p>There are two great periods in chronology, from which the nations of Europe date events. The first is the creation of the world; the second, the birth of Jesus Christ.</p>
			<p>Those events that happened before the birth of Christ are dated from the creation of the world. Those events which have happened since the birth of Christ are dated from that time; as the present year <time>1739</time>. For example:</p>
			<table>
				<thead>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<abbr>A. M.</abbr>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>Noah’s flood happened in the year of the world</td>
						<td><time>1656</time></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Babylon was built by Semiramis, in the year</td>
						<td><time>1800</time></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Moses was born in the year</td>
						<td><time>2400</time></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Troy was taken by the Greeks in the year</td>
						<td><time>2800</time></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Rome was founded by Romulus in the year</td>
						<td><time>3225</time></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Alexander the Great conquered Persia</td>
						<td><time>3674</time></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Jesus Christ was born in the year of the world</td>
						<td><time>4000</time></td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>The meaning of <abbr>A. M.</abbr> at the top of these figures, is <i xml:lang="la">Anno Mundi</i>, the year of the world.</p>
			<p>From the birth of Christ, all Christians date the events that have happened since that time; and this is called <em>the Christian æra</em>. Sometimes we say,
that such a thing happened in such a year of Christ, and sometimes we say
in such a century. Now, a century is one hundred years from the birth of
Christ; so that at the end of every hundred years a new century begins:
and we are, consequently, now in the eighteenth century.</p>
<p>For example, as to the Christian æra, or since the birth of Christ;</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>Mahomet, the false prophet of the Turks, who established the Mahometan
religion, and writ the Alcoran, which is the Turkish book of religion,
died in the seventh century, that is, in the year of Christ</td>
						<td><time>632</time></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>Charlemain was crowned emperor in the last year of the eighth
century, that is, in the year</td>
						<td><time>800</time></td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>Here the old Roman Empire ended.</p>
						<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>William the Conqueror was crowned King of England in the eleventh
century, in the year</td>
						<td><time>1066</time></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>The Reformation, that is, the Protestant relegion, begun by Martin
Luther, in the sixteenth century, in the year</td>
						<td><time>1530</time></td>
					</tr>
										<tr>
						<td>Gunpowder invented by one Bertholdus, a German monk, in the
fourteenth century, in the year</td>
						<td><time>1380</time></td>
					</tr>
										<tr>
						<td>Printing invented, at Haerlem in Holland, or at Strasbourg, or at
Mentz in Germany, in the fifteenth century; about the year</td>
						<td><time>1440</time></td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
