<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 102</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-102" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">102</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">April 30 N. S., 1745</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>You rebuke me very justly for my mistake, between Juno and Venus, and I am very glad to be corrected by you. It is Juno’s speech to Æolus, in the first book of Virgil, that I meant, and if I eaid Venus’s, I said very wrong. What led me into the error at the time might possibly be, that in that speech (if I remember right) Juno assumes a title of Venus’s character, and offers to procure for Æolus by way of bribe.</p>
			<p>Your Easter breaking-up is, by good luck, but short, and I hope I shall see you in England before your Whitsuntide idleness; though I flatter myself you will not make it a time of idleness, at least I will do my endeavours to prevent it.</p>
			<p>I am sure you are now old enough, and I hope and believe that you are wise enough, to be sensible of the great advantage you will receive for the rest of your life, from application in the beginning of it. If you have regard for your character, if you would be loved and esteemed hereafter, this is your time, and your only time, to get the materials together, and to lay the foundation of your future reputation; the superstructure will be easily finished afterwards. One year’s application now is worth ten to you hereafter; therefore pray take pains now, in order to have pleasure afterwards; and mind always what you are about, be it what it will; it is so much time saved. Besides, there is no one surer sign in the world of a little frivolous mind, than to be thinking of one thing while one is doing another; for whatever is worth doing, is worth thinking of it while one is doing it. Whenever you find any body incapable of attention to the same object for a quarter oly an hour together, and easily diverted from it by some trifle, you may depend upon it that person is frivolous, and incapable of any thing great. Let nothing <em>deturn</em> you from the thing you are about, unless it be of much greater consequence than that thing.</p>
			<p>You will be thirteen by that time I shall see you; and considering the care I have taken of you, you ought to be at thirteen what other boys are at sixteen; so that I expect to find you about sixteen at my return. Good-night to you.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
