<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 22</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-22" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">22</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-25" id="noteref-25" epub:type="noteref">25</a>
			</h2>
			<p>In the year of the city 300, the Romans had no written or fixed statutes, insomuch that the consuls and senators, who were appointed judges, were absolute arbiters of the fate of the citizens. The people, therefore, demanded that, instead of such arbitrary decisions, certain stated laws should be enacted, as directions for the administration of public affairs, and also withregard to private litigations. Whereapon the senators sent ambassadors to Athens in Greece, to study the laws of that country, and to collect such as they should find most suitable to the republic. When the ambassadors returned, ten persons (who were styled Decemviri) were elected for the institution of these new laws. They were invested with absolute power for a whole year; during which time all other magistracies were suspended. The decemviri caused their laws to be engraved on brazen tables; which ever after were called the Laws of the Ten Tables<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-26" id="noteref-26" epub:type="noteref">26</a>. These were placed in the most conspicuous part of the principal square in the city. When the time of the decemviri was expired, they refused to lay down their power; but maintained it by force, and became the tyrants of the republic. This caused great tumults; however, they were at length constrained to yield; and Rome returned to its ancient form of government.</p>
			<p>About the year of Rome 365, the Gauls (that is to say, the French) entered Italy, and marched towards Rome with an army of above sixty thousand men. The Romans levied in haste an army of forty thousand men, and sent it to encounter them. The two armies came to an engagement, in which the Romaue received a total defeat. On the arrival of this bad news, all who had remained at Rome fled into the Capitol, or citadel, and there fortified themselves, as well as the shortness of time would permit. Three days after, Brennus, general of the Gauls, advanced to Rome with his army, and found the city abandoned; whereupon he laid siege to the Capitol. which was defended with incredible bravery. One night when the Gauls determined to surprise the Capitol, and had climbed up to the very ramparts, without being perceived, <abbr class="name">M.</abbr> Maulius, awakened by the cackling of geese, alarmed the garrison, and saved the Capitol. At the same time Camillus, an illustrious Roman, who some time before had been bhanished from the city, having had information of the danger to which his country was exposed, came upon the Gauls in the rear, with as many troops as he could muster up about the country, and gave them a total overthrow. Admire, in Camillus, this fine example, this greatness of soul; he who, having been unjustly banished, forgetful of the wrongs he had received, and actuated by the love of his country, more than the desire of revenge, comes to save those who sought his ruin.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
