<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 48</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-48" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">48</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Monday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I was very sorry that Mr. Maittaire did not give me such an account of you yesterday, as I wished and expected. He takes so much pains to teach you, that he well deserves from you the returns of care and attention. Besides, pray consider, now that you have justly got the reputation of knowing much more than other boys of your age do, how shameful it would be for you to lose it, and to let other boys, that are now behind you, get before you. If you would but have attention, you have quickness enough to conceive, and memory enough to retain; but, without attention while you are learning, all the time you employ at your book is thrown away; and your shame will be the greater, if you should be ignorant, when you had such opportunities of learning. An ignorant man is insignificant and contemptible; nobody cares for his company, and he can just be said to live, and that is all. There is a very pretty French epigram, upon the death of such an ignorant, insignificant fellow, the sting of which is, that all that can be said of him is, that he was once alive, and that he is now dead. This is the epigram, which you may get by heart.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem" xml:lang="fr">
				<p>
					<span>Colas est mort de maladie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tu veux que j’en pleure le sort,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Que diable veux-tu que j’en dise?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Colas vivoit, Colas est mort.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Take care not to deserve the name of Colas; which I shall certainly give you if you do not learn well: and then that name will get about, and every body will call you Colas; which will be much worse than Frisky.</p>
			<p>You are now reading Mr. Rollin’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Ancient History</i>; pray remember to have your maps by you when you read it, and desire Monsieur Pelnote to shew you, in the maps, all the places you read of. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
