<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 57</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-57" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">57</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Monday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>Since, by Mr. Maittaire’s care, you learn your Latin and Greek out of the best authors, I wish you would, at the same time that you construe the words, mind the sense and thoughts of those authors; which will help your invention, when you come to compose yourself, and at the same time form your taste. Taste, in its proper signification, means the taste of the palate in eating or drinking; but it is metaphorically used for the judgment one forms of any art or science. For example, if I say, such a man has a good taste in poetry, I mean that he judges well of poetry, and distinguishes rightly what is good and what is bad; and finds out equally the beauties and the faults of the composition. Or if I say, that such a man has a good taste in painting, I mean the same thing; which is, that he is a good judge of pictures; and will distinguish not only good ones from bad ones, but very good ones from others not quite so good, but yet good ones. <i xml:lang="fr">Avoir le goût bon</i>, means the same thing in French: and nothing forms so true a taste, as the reading the ancient authors with attention. Description is a beautiful part of poetry, and much used by the best poets: it is likewise called painting, because it represents things in so lively and strong a manner, that we think we see them as in a picture. Thus Ovid describes the palace of the Sun, or Apollo:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>“Regia Solis erat sublimibus alta columnis,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clara micante auro, flammasque imitante pyropo.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cujus ebur nitidum fastigia summa tenebat;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Argenti bifores radiabant lumine valvæ,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Materiem superabat opus: nam Maulciber illic</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Æquora ceelarat medias cingentia terras,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Terrarumque orbem, cælumque quod imminet orbi.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Afterwards he describes Phaebus himself sitting upon his throne:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>“⁠—Purpureâ velatus veste sedebat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Solio Phœbus, claris lucente smaragdis.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dextrâ lœvâque Dies, et Mensis, et Annus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sæcalaque, et positæ spatiis æqualibus Horæ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Verque novum stabat, cinctum florente coronâ,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stabat nuda Æstas, et spicea serta gerebat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stabat et Autumnus calcatis sordidus uvis,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Et glacialis Hyems, canos hirsuta capillos.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Observe the invention in this descripgion. As the sun is the great rule by which we measure time; and as it marks out the years, the months, the days and the seasons; so Ovid has represented Phœbus upon his throne, as the principal figure, attended by the Years, Days, Months, and Seasons, which he likewise represents as so many persons, This is properly invention, and invention is the soul of poetry. Poets have their name upon that account, from the Greek word Nusw, which signifies, to make or invent. Adieu.</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:postscript">Translate these Latin verses, at your leisure, into English, and send your translation, in a letter, to my house in town. I mean English prose; for I do not expect verse from you yet.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
