<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 98</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-98" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">98</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, July 16, 1743</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I received, this morning, your letter and theme; both which were so much better written than the former, that I almost read them at sight. It is therefore plain that you could do better than you did, and I am sure you can do better still, and desire that you will be pleased to do so. I send you back your letter for the sake of two gross faults in orthography, which I have corrected, and which it is fit you should observe. Those things which all people can do well if they please, it is a shame to do ill. As, for example, writing and spelling well only require care and attention. There are other things which people are not obliged to do at all; but, if they do them at all, are obliged to do them well, or they make themselves very ridiculous by attempting them. As, for instance, dancing, music, painting; which a man is not obliged to know at all; but then he is obliged by common sense not to do them at all, unless he does them well. I am very glad to hear that you have increased your fortune, by the acquisition of two silver pence. In that article, (in spite of the old proverb,) I recommend to you, to be <em>penny wise</em>, and to take a great deal of pains to get more. Money so got brings along with it, what seldom accompanies money, honour. As you are now got into sense-verses, remember, that it is not sufficient to put a little comrmon sense into hexameters and pentameters; that alone does not constitute poetry: but observe, and endeavour to imitate, the poetical diction, the epithets, and the images of the poets; for, though the Latin maxim is a true one, <i xml:lang="la">Nascitur poeta, fit orator</i>; that relates only to the genius, the fire, and the invention of the poet, which is certainly never to be acquired, but must be born with him. But the mechanical parts of the poetry, such as the diction, the numbers, and the harmony, they are to be acquired by care. Many words, that are very properly used in prose, are much below the dignity of verse. Frequent epithets would be very improper and affected in prose, but are almost necessary in verse. Thus you will observe, that Ovid, the poet you now read, adds an epithet to almost every substantive: which epithet is to point out some particular circumstance or peculiarity of the substantive. Virgil commonly gives the epithet of <i xml:lang="la">Pius</i> to his hero Æneas, on account of his remarkable piety, both to his father Anchises, and to the gods; but then, when he represents him fighting, or making love, he J’udiciously changes the epithet, and calls him <i xml:lang="la">Dux Æneas</i> more proper epithet in those situations. Ovid, in his epistle from Penelope to Ulysees, makes her give him the epithet of <i xml:lang="la">lentus</i>, because he was so long coming home,</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>Hanc tua Penelope <em>lento</em> tibi mittit Ulyssi.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">When you read the Poets, attend to all these things, as well as merely to the literal coustruction of the language, or the feet of the verse.</p>
			<p>I hope you take pains with Mr. Fitzgerald, and improve much in Greek; for that, I am sure, is in your power. I will give you Horace’s advice upon that subject.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>—Vos exemplaria Græca</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nocturnâ versate manu, versate diurnâ.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Every body knows Latin, but few people know Greek well; so that you will distinguish yourself much more by Greek, than you can by Latin, and, considering how long you have learned it, you ought to know it as well.</p>
			<p>If you would have me bring you any thing from hence, let me know what, and you shall have it; provided that, at my return, I hear an equally good account of you from Dr. Nichols, Mr. Fitzgerald, and Monsieur Coudert. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
