<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 62</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-62" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">62</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, October 20, 1740</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I have often told you already, that nothing will help your invention more, and teach you to think more justly, than reading, with care and attention, the ancient Greek and Latin Authors, especially the Poets; invention being the soul of poetry; that is to say, it animates and gives life to poetry, as the soul does to the body. I have often told you too, that Poets take the liberty of personifying inanimate things; that is, they describe, and represent, as persons, the passions, the appetites, and many other things, that have no figures nor persons belonging to them. For example, they represent Love as a little boy with wings, a bow and arrow, and a quiver. Rage and Fury they represent under the figures of three women, called the three Furies, with serpents hissing about their heads, lighted torches in their hands, and their faces red and inflamed. The description of Envy I have already sent you, and likewise the description of Hunger and Famine, out of Ovid’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Metamorphoses</i>. I now send you, out of the same book, the beautiful description of the House or Dwelling of Rumour, that is, common report. You will there find all the particularities of rumour; how immediately it spreads itself every where; how it adds falsehoods to truths; how it imposes upon the vulgar; and how credulity, error, joy and fear, dwell with it; because credulous people believe lightly whatever they hear, and that all people in general are inclined to believe what they either wish or fear much. Pray translate these lines, at your leisure, into English, and send them me. Consider them yourself too, at the same time, and compare them with the observations you must already have made upon rumour, or common fame. Have not you observed how quickly a piece of news spreads itself all over the town? how it is first whispered about, then spoken aloud? how almost every body, that repeats it, adds something to it? how the vulgar, that is, the ordinary people, believe it immediately? and how other people give credit to it, according as they wish it true or not? All this you will find painted in the following lines; which I desire you will weigh well. <i xml:lang="la">Hoc enim abs te rogo, oro, postulo, flagito. Jubeo te bene valere.</i></p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>Orbe locus medio est inter terrasque, fretumque,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cœlestesque plagas, <em>triplicis</em> confinia *mundi;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unde quod est usquam, quamvis regionibus absit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inspicitur: penetratque <em>cavas</em> vox omnis ad *aures.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fama tenet, summâque domum sibi legit in arce:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Innumerosque aditus, ac mille foramina tectis</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Addidit, et nullis inclusit limina portis.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nocte dieque patent. Tota est ex *aure <em>sonanti</em>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tota fremit: vocesque refert: iteratque quod audit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nulla quies intus, nullague silentia parte;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nec tamen est clamor, sed parvæ murmura vocis,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Qualia de pelagi, si quis procul audiat, undis</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Esse solent: qualemve sonum; cum Jupiter <em>atras</em></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Increpuit *nubes, extrema tonitrua reddunt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Atria turba tenent: veniunt <em>leve</em> *vulgus, euntque,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mistaque cum veris, passim commenta vagantur</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Millia rumorum; confusaque verba volutant.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>E quibus hi <em>vacuas</em> implent sermonibus *auras:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hi narrata ferunt aliò: mensuraque ficti</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crescit. Et auditis aliquid novus adjicit auctor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Illic Credulitas, illic <em>temerarius</em> *Error,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vanaque *Lætitia est, <em>consternati</em>que *Timores,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>*Seditioque *<em>repens</em>, dubioque auctore Susurri.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ipsa, quid in cœlo rerum, pelagoque geratur,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Et tellure, videt; totumque inquirit in orbem.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>N.B.⁠—I have underlined (printed in Roman characters) the epithets, and marked the substantives they belong to, thus *.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Full in the midst of this created space,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Betwixt heav’n, earth and skies, there stands a place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confining on all three, with triple bound:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whence all things, tho’ remote, are view’d around;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thither bring their undulating sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The palace of loud <em>Fame</em>, her seat of pow’r,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plac’d on the summit of a lofty tow’r;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand winding entries, long and wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Receive of fresh reports a flowing tide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand crannies in the walls are made;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor gate, nor bars, exclude the busy trade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis built of brass, the better to diffuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The spreading sounds, and multiply the news.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where echoes in repeated echoes play,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mart for ever full, and open night and day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor silence is within, nor voice express,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a deaf noise of sounds that never cease;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confus’d and chiding, like the hollow roar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of tides receding from the insulted shore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or like the broken thunder heard from far,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Jove at distance drives the rolling war.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The courts are filled with a tumultuous din</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of crowds, or issuing forth, or entering in:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thorough-fare of news: where some devise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Things never heard, some mingle truth with lies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The troubled air with empty sounds they beat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Intent to hear and eager to repeat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Error sits brooding there, with added train</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of vain credulity, and joys as vain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suspicion, with Sedition join’d, are near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rumours rais’d, and murmurs mix’d, and panic fear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fame sits aloft, and sees the subject ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seas about, and skies above, inquiring all around.</span>
					<br/>
				</p>
				<cite>Garth’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Ovid</i>.</cite>
			</blockquote>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
