<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 39</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-39" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">39</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Monday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>It was a great pleasure to me, when Mr. Maittaire told me, yesterday, in your presence, that you began to mind your learning, and to give more attention. If you continue to do so, you will find two advantages in it: the one your own improvement, the other my kindness; which you must never expect, but when Mr. Maittaire tells me you deserve it. There is no doing any thing well without application and industry. Industry (in Latin <i xml:lang="la">industria</i>, and in Greek <i xml:lang="grk">αλχιυοια</i>,) is defined (that is, described) to be <i xml:lang="la">frequens exercitium circa rem honestam, unde aliquis industrius dicitur, hoc est studiosus, vigilans</i>: This I expect so much from you, that I do not doubt, in a little time, but that I shall hear you called Philip the industrious, or, if you like it better in Greek, <i xml:lang="grk">Φιλιππος αγχιυορς</i>. Most of the great men of antiquity had some epithet added to their names, describing some particular merit they had; and why should not you endeavour to be distinguished by some honourable appellation? Parts and quickness, though very necessary, are not alone sufficient; attention and application must complete the business; and both together will go a great way.</p>
			<blockquote xml:lang="la">
				<p>Accipite ergo animis, atque hæc mea figite dicta.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Adieu.</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:postscript">We were talking yesterday of America, which I told you was first discovered by Christopher Columbus, a Genoese, through the encouragement of Ferdinando and Isabella, king and queen of Spain, in <time>1491</time>, that is, at the latter end of the fifteenth century; but I forgot to tell you, that it took its name of America from one Vespusius Americus of Florence, who discovered South America, in <time>1497</time>. The Spaniards began their conquests in America by the islands of St. Domingo and Cuba; and soon afterwards Ferdinando Cortez, with a small army, landed jupon the continent, took Mexico, and beat Montezuma, she Indian emperor. This encouraged other nations to go and try what they could get in this new-discovered world. The English bave got there, New York, New England, Jamaica, Barbadoes, Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Maryland, and some of the Leeward Islands. The Portuguese have got the Brazils; the Dutch, Curaçoa, and Surinam; and the French, Martinico, and New France.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
