<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 70</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-70" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">70</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-42" id="noteref-42" epub:type="noteref">42</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="z3998:sender">Philip Chesterfield</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">To Philip Stanhope, yet a little boy, but to-morrow going out of childhood.</p>
			<p>This is the last letter I shall write to you as to a little boy; for, to-morrow, if I am not mistaken, you will attain your ninth year; so that, for the fature, I shall treat you as a <em>youth</em>. You must now commence a different course of life, a different course of studies. No more levity; childish toys and play-things must be thrown aside, and your mind directed to serious objects. What was not unbecoming of a child, would be disgraceful to a youth. Wherefore, endeavour with all your might to shew a suitable change; and, by learning, good manners, politeness, and other accomplishments, to surpass those youths of your own age, whom hitherto you have surpassed when boys. Consider, I entreat you, how shameful it would be for you, should you let them get the better of you now. For instance, should Onslow, now a Westminster scholar, heretofore your companion, and a youth of nine years old, as you are; should he, I say, deservedly obtain a place in school above you, what would you do? where would you run to hide yourself? You would certainly be glad to quit a place where you could not remain with honour. If, therefore, you have any regard for your own reputation, and a desire to please me, see that, by unremitting attention and labour, you may, with justice, be styled the head of your class. So may the Almighty preserve you, and bestow upon you his choicest blessings ! I shall add what Horce wishes for his Tibullus:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>Gratia, fama, valetudo cordtingat abundè;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Et mundus victus, non deficiente crumendâ!</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Kalends of <time datetime="1741-05">May, 1741</time>.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
