<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 32</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-32" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">32</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Friday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I was very glad when Mr. Maittaire told me, that you had more attention now than you used to have; for it is the only way to reap any benefit by what you learn. Without attention, it is impossible to remember, and without remembering, it is but time and labour lost to learn. I hope, too, that your attention is not only employed upon words, but upon the sense and meaning of those words; that is, that when you read, or get any thing by heart, you observe the thoughts and reflections of the author, as well as his words. This attention will furnish you with materials, when you come to compose and invent upon any subject yourself; for example, when you read of anger, envy, hatred, love, pity, or any of the passions, observe what the author says of them, and what good or ill effects he ascribes to them. Observe, too, the great difference between prose and verse, in treating the same subjects. In verse, the figures are stronger and bolder, and the diction or expression loftier or higher, than in prose; nay, the words in verse are seldom put in the same order as in prose. Verse is full of metaphors, similies, and epithets. Epithets (by the way) are adjectives, which mark some particular quality of the thing or person to which they are added; as, for example, <i xml:lang="la">Pius Æneas</i>, the pious Æneas; <i xml:lang="la">Pius</i> is the epithet: <i xml:lang="la">Fama Mendax</i>, Fame that lies: <i xml:lang="la">Mendax</i> is the epithet: <i xml:lang="grk">Ποδας-ωκυς Αχιλλευς</i>, Achilles swift of foot; <i xml:lang="grk">Ποδας-ωκυς</i> is the epithet. This is the same in all languages; as, for instance, they say in French, <i xml:lang="fr">L’envie pâle et bléme, l’amour aveugle</i>; in English, Pale, livid envy, blind love: These adjectives are the epithets. Envy is always represented by the poets as pale, meagre, and pining away at other people’s happiness. Ovid says of Envy,</p>
			<blockquote xml:lang="la">
				<p>Vixque tenet lacrymas, quod nil lacrymabile cernit.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Which means, that Envy can scarce help crying, when she sees nothing to cry at; that is, she cries when she sees others happy. Envy is certainly one of the meanest and most tormenting of all passions, since there is hardly any body that has not something for an envious man to envy: So that he can never be happy, while he sees any body else so. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
