<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 2</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-2" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">2</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" epub:type="noteref">3</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Isleworth</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>As you will, in time, read the ancient Greek and Latin poets, it is proper that you should have some notion of the foundation of poetry, and a general knowledge of those stories to which poets most commonly allude. You have already read the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Poetical History</i>, and I hope you remember it. You will have found there the histories of gods and goddesses, whom the poets are continually mentioning. Even modern poets (that is to say, those of the present times) have adopted all the histories of the ancient ones.</p>
			<p>For example; an English or a French poet, at the beginning of his work, invokes Apollo, the god of poetry: he also invokes the Nine Muses, who are the goddesses of poetry. He entreats them to be propitious or favourable, and to inspire him with their genius. For this reason I here send you the history of Apollo, and that of the Nine Muses, or Nine Sisters, as they are frequently called. Apollo is also named the god of Parnassus, because he is supposed to be frequently upon a mountain called Parnassus.</p>
			<p>The making verses well is an agreeable talent, which I hope you will be possessed of; for as it is more difficult to express one’s thoughts in verse than in prose, the being capable of doing it is more glorious. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
