<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 54</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-54" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">54</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Tumbridge, July 29, 1740</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>Since you are so ready at the measure of Greek and Latin verses, as Mr. Maittaire writes me word you are, he will possibly, before it is very long, try your invention a little, and set you to make some of your own composition; you should therefore begin to consider, not only the measure of the verses you read, but likewise the thoughts of the poet, and the similies, metaphors, and allusions, which are the ornameants of poetry, and raise it above prose, and distinguish it from prose as much as the measure does. This attention to the thoughts and diction of other poets, will suggest both matter, and the manner of expressing it, to you, when you come to invent, yourself. Thoughts are the same in every language, and a good thought in one language is a good one in every other; thus, if you attend to the thoughts and images in French or English poetry, they will be of use to you, when you compose in Latin or Greek. I have met lately with a very pretty copy of English verses, which I here send you to learn by heart; but, first, I will give you the thought in prose, that you may observe how it is expressed and adorned by poetical diction.</p>
			<p>The poet tells his mistress Florella, that she is so unkind to him, she will not even suffer him to look at her; that, to avoid her cruelty, he addresses himself to other women, who receive him kindly; but that, notwithstanding this, his heart always returns to her, though she uses him so ill: and then he concludes with this beautiful and apt simile, in which he compares his fate to that of exiles (that is, people who are banished from their own country) who, though they are pitied in whatever country they go to, yet long to return to their own, where they are sure to be used ill and punished.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>“Why will Florella, when I gaze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My ravish’d eyes reprove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hide from them the only face</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They can behold with love?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“To shun her scorn, and ease my care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I seek a nymph more kind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, while I rove from fair to fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still gentler usage find.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But oh! how faint is every joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where nature has no part!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New beauties may my eyes employ,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But you engage my heart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“So restless exiles, doom’d to roam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Meet pity every where;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet languish for their natve home,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though death attends them there.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>You will observe, that these verses have alternate rhymes; that is, the third line rhymes to the first, and the fourth line to the second; the first and third lines having four feet each; and the second and fourth having but three feet each. A foot, in English verse, is two syllables.</p>
			<p>To use your ear a little to English verse, and to make you attend to the sense too, | have transposed the words of the following lines, which I would have you put in their proper order, and send me in your next.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Life consider cheat a when ’tis all I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hope with fool’d, decei’t men yet with favour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Repay will to-morrow trust on think and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Falser former day to-morrow’s than the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Worse lies blest be shall when and we says it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hope new some possess’d cut off with we what.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
