<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 63</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-63" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">63</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>The shortest and best way of learning a language, is to know the roots of it; that is, those original, primitive words, of which many other words are made, by adding a letter, or a preposition to them, or by some such small variation, which makes some difference in the sense: thus, you will observe, that the prepositions, <em>a</em>, <em>ab</em>, <em>abs</em>, <em>e</em>, <em>ex</em>, <em>pro</em>, <em>pre</em>, <em>per</em>, <em>inter</em>, <em>circum</em>, <em>super</em>, <em>trans</em>, and many others, when added to the primitive verb, or noun, alter its signification accordingly: and when you have observed this in three or four instances, you will know it in all. It is likewise the same in the Greek, where, when you once know the roots, you will soon know the branches. Thus, in the paper I send you to get by heart, you will observe, that the verb <em>fero</em>, I carry, is the root of sixteen others, whose significations differ from the root, only by the addition of a letter or two, or a preposition; which letters or prepositions make the same alterations to all words to which they are added: as, for example, <em>ex</em>, which signifies out, when joined to <em>eo</em>, I go, makes, I go out, <em>exeo</em>; when joined to <em>traho</em>, I draw, it makes, I draw out, <em>extraho</em>; and so in all other cases of the same nature. The preposition <em>per</em>, which signifies thoroughly or completely, as well as <em>by</em>, when joined to a verb or a nown, adds that signification to it; when added to <em>fero</em>, I carry, it makes <em>perfero</em>, I carry-thoroughly; when added to <em>facio</em>, I do, it makes <em>perficio</em>, I finish, I do thoroughly, I complete: when added to nouns, it has the same effect; <em>difficilis</em>, bard; <em>perdifficilis</em>, thoroughly, completely bard: <em>jucundus</em>, agreeable; <em>perjucundus</em>, thoroughly agreeable. If you attend to these observations, it will save you a great deal of trouble in looking in the dictionary. As you are now pretty well master of most of the rules, what you chiefly want, both in Latin and Greek, is the words, in order to construe authors; and therefore I would advise you to write down, and learn by heart, every day, for your own amusement, besides what you do with Mr. Maittaire, ten words in Greek, Latin and English, out of a dictionary or a vocabulary, which will go a great way in a year’s time, considering the words you know already, and those you will learn besides in construing with Mr. Maittaire. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
