<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 84</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-84" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">84</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-47" id="noteref-47" epub:type="noteref">47</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>Let us now resume the subject upon Spain, and treat of some particulars of which it is proper you should be informed.</p>
			<p>Spain is a very fine country, and of great extent, not above half peopled, nor above half cultivated; for the reasons which I mentioned to you in my last letter.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-48" id="noteref-48" epub:type="noteref">48</a></p>
			<p>It is divided into several provinces, which formerly were so many distinct kingdoms. Valencia, of all of them, is the most beautiful and fertile, producing excellent wines and delicious fruit.</p>
			<p>The province of Andalusia is celebrated for its horses, the finest shaped, and the best of any in Europe. It likewise produces the very best wool, which we make use of here in manufacturing our superfine cloths.</p>
			<p>The town of Gibraltar, which belongs to us, was called in the time of the Romans Gades; and that small strait, which you see on the map between Gibraltar and Africa, was named <i xml:lang="la">Fretum Gaditanum</i>. Fable has rendered that town famous; for it is pretended that Hercules terminated there his excursions, and that he erected two pillars, on which he wrote, that there was no going any further, <i xml:lang="la">Ne plus ultra</i>; thinking himself at the end of the world.</p>
			<p>Spain had anciently many gold and silver mines, out of which the Romans extracted prodigious sums; but they have been long since exhausted; those of Peru and Mexico compensate for them abundantly.</p>
			<p>The Spaniards are haughty and pompous in every thing. The king always signs himself, I the King, <i xml:lang="es">Yo el Rey</i>, as if he were the only king in the world; and the king’s children are styled the Infants, as if there were no other infants in the world. The king’s council is called Junta. The capital city of Spain is Madrid.</p>
			<p>Spain was formerly a free country. Assemblies used to be held there of the most considerable people, who enjoyed great privileges; something like our parliaments. Those assemblies were named <i xml:lang="es">las Cortes</i>, but they are of little authority at present; the king is absolute.</p>
			<p>Give attention to all these things, and try to remember them.</p>
			<p>They are seldom learned at school, and are acquired mostly by reading and conversation when we are become men; but if you will only apply yourself, you will know more of them at your leaving school, than otﬁer young gentlemen do at twenty years of age. Farewell, work hard. Cæsar could not bear an equal at Rome; why should you bear an equal at school?</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
