<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 24</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-24" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">24</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-28" id="noteref-28" epub:type="noteref">28</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, April 2, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>I received your letter, with which I am extremely pleased; it is very well wiitten, though without lines. In the manner that you improve, you soon will know more than many boys that are two or three years older yourself: by that means you will aquire great reputation, and be esteemed by people of merit.</p>
			<p>At present, let us continue to define the character of a man of probity. To such a one nothing is more essential than always to speak truth, and to be strictly observant of his promise. On the other hand, nothing is more infamous and dishonourable than to tell lies and break our word.</p>
			<p>During a war between the Romans and Carthaginians, Attilius Regulus, the Roman general, was defeated, and taken prisoner by the Carthaginians. Notwithstanding their victory, they were desirous of making peace with the Romans. In order to obtain it they permitted Regulus to go to Rome, on condition that he pledged his word to return to Carthage; not doubting that, to obtain his liberty, he would persuade the Romans to make peace. But that generous Roman scorned even liberty, when purchased to the detriment of his country. So that, far from persuading the Romans to make peace, he told them they ought to continue the war; for the Carthaginians were not in a situation to support it. After this he prepared to return to Carthage, according to the promise he had made. The Romans, particularly his relations and friends, advised him not to return; because the Cartliaginians, who were cruel, would most certainly put him to death. But rather than live with infamy by breaking his word, he preferred going to certain destruction; and returned to Carthage, where they put him to death by throwing him into a tub filled with spikes. Such a death is far preferable to life purchased by lies and infamy.</p>
			<p>A man of probity and honour considers himself as interested in the welfare of all mankind. To such a character it is that Terence, in one of his comedies, attributes the saying, <i xml:lang="la">Homo sum, nihil humani a me alienum puto</i>: which means, I am a man myself, and, as such, interested in whatever concerns man. Indeed, I am of opinion, that it is impossible to see any one unhappy without feeling for that person, and endeavouring to help him; as, on the other hand, one is pleased to see people contented and happy. None but the most depraved souls can envy other people’s happiness, or can rejoice at their misfortunes. Adieu! Take care to be equally distingushed by the virtues of the heart, as by the advantages of the mind.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
