<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 49</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-49" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">49</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Saturday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>Since you choose the name of Polyglot, I hope you will take care to deserve it; which you can only do by care and application. I confess the names of Frisky and Colas are not quite so honourable; but then, remember too, that there cannot be a stronger ridicule, than to call a man by an honourable name, when he is known not to deserve it. For example, it would be a manifest irony to call a very ugly fellow an Adonis, (who, you know, was so handsome, that Venus herself fell in love with him,) or to call a cowardly fellow an Alexander, or an ignorant fellow, Polyglot; for every body would discover the sneer; and Mr. Pope observes very truly, that</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>“Praise undeserv’d is satire in disguise.”</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Next to the doing of things that deserve to be written, there is nothing that gets a man more credit, or gives him more pleasure, than to write things that deserve to be read. The younger Pliny (for there were two Plinys, the uncle and the nephew) expresses it thus: <i xml:lang="la">Equidem beatos puto, quibus Deorum munere datum est, aut facere scribenda, aut legenda scribere; beatissimos vero quibus utrumque</i>.</p>
			<p>Pray mind your Greek particularly; for to know Greek very well, is to be really learned: there is no great credit in knowing Latin, for every body knows it; and it is only a shame not to know it. Besides that, you will understand Latin a great deal the better for understanding Greek very well; a great number of Latin words, especlally the technical words, being derived from the Greek. Technical words mean such particular words as relate to any art or science; from the Greek word <i xml:lang="grk">τεχυη</i>, which signifies art, and <i xml:lang="grk">τεχυικος</i>, which signifies artificial. Thus, a dictionary that explains the terms of art is called a Lexicon Technicum, or a Technical Dictionary. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
