<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 96</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-96" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">96</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Friday Morning</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I am very well pleased with the substance of your letter; and as for the inaccuracies with regard to style and grammar, you could have corrected them all yourself, if you had taken time. I return it to you here corrected, and desire that you will attend to the difference, which is the way to avoid the same faults for the future.</p>
			<p>I would have your letter, next Thursday, be in English, and let it be written as accurately as you are able; I mean with respect to the langunage, grammar, and stops; for, as to the matter of it, the less trouble you give yourself, the better it will be. Letters should be easy and natural, and convey to the persons, to whom we send them, just what we would say to those persons, if we were with them. You may as well write it on the Wednesday, at your leisure, and leave it to be given to my man, when he comes for it on Thursday.</p>
			<p>As I know you do not love to stay long in the same place, I fatter myself, that you will take care not to remain long in that.you have got, in the middle of the third form: It is in your own power to be soon out of it, if you please; and I hope the love of variety will tempt you.</p>
			<p>Monsieur Coudert will go to you three times a-week; Tuesdays aud Saturdays, at three of the clock, and Thursdays at five. He will read modern history with you; and, at the same time, instruct you in geography and chronology; without both which, the knowledge of histery is very imperfect, and almost useless. I beg, therefore, that you will give great attention to them; they will be of the greatest use to you.</p>
			<p>Pray be very attentive and obedient to Mr. Fitzgerald; I am particularly obliged to him for undertaking the care of you; and if you are diligent, and mind your business when with him, you will rise very fast in the school. Every remove (you know) is to be attended by a reward from me, besides the credit you will gain for yourself; which, to so great a soul as yours, I presume, is a stronger inducement than any other reward can be; but, however, you shall have one. I know very well you will not be easy till you are got above Master Onslow; but, as he learns very well, I fear you will never be able to do it, at least not without taking more pains than, I believe, you will care to take; but, should that ever happen, there shall be a very considerable reward for you, besides fame.</p>
			<p>Let me know, in your next, what books you read in your place at school, and what you do with Mr. Fitzgerald. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
