<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 3</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-3" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">3</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-4" id="noteref-4" epub:type="noteref">4</a>
			</h2>
			<p>Apollo was son of Jupiter and Latona, who was delivered of him and Diana in the island of Delos. He is god of the sun, and thence generally is called Phœbus. He is also the god of poetry and of music, in which character he is represented with a lyre in his hand; that instrument is a kind of harp. There was a famous temple at Delphos, dedicated to Apollo, where he pronounced oracles, that is to say, foretold what is to happen. He is often invoked by poets, to animate them with his fire, that they may be inspired to celebrate the praises of gods and of men.</p>
			<p>The Nine Muses were daughters of Jupiter and of the goddess Mnemosyne, that is to say, the goddess of memory; to shew that memory is necessary to arts and sciences. They are called Clio, Euterpe, Thalia, Melpomene, Terpsichore, Erato, Polyhymnia, Urania, Calliope. They are the goddesses of poetry, history, music, and of all arts and sciences. The Nine Muses are represented by poets as very young, very handsome, and adorned with garlands of flowers. The mountains which they inhabit are called Parnassus, Helicon and Pindus. There are two celebrated fountains which belong to them, named Hippocrene and Castalia. Poets, in their invocations, desire them to quit for a moment their Parnassus and Hippocrene, that they may assist them with their inspiration to make verses.</p>
			<p>Pegasus, the poetic horse, often mentioned by poets, has wings to his feet. He gave a kick against Mount Helicon, and the fountain of Hippocrene immediately sprang out. When a poet is making verses, it is sometimes said, he is mounted upon his Pegasus.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-5" id="noteref-5" epub:type="noteref">5</a></p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
