<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 8</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-8" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">8</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-10" id="noteref-10" epub:type="noteref">10</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Isleworth, July 29, 1738</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>I sent you, in my last, the story of Atalanta<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-11" id="noteref-11" epub:type="noteref">11</a>, who could not resist the temptation of gold: I will now give you the story of a woman, with whom no temptation whatever had any power: this was Daphne, daughter to the river Peneus. Apollo was violently in love with her; and Apollo was, as you know, a very accomplished god; for he was young and handsome; besides which, he was god of the sun, of music, and of poetry. These are brilliant qualities; but, notwithstanding, the nymph was coy, and the lover unsuccessful.</p>
			<p>One day having met with her in the fields, he pursued, in order to have forced her. Daphne, to avoid him, ran as long as she was able; but at last, being quite spent, Apollo was just going to catch her in his arms, when the gods, who pitied her fate, and approved her virtue, changed her into a laurel; so that Apollo, instead of his dear Daphne, was surprised to find a tree in his arms. But, as a testimony of his love, he decreed the laurel to be the most honourable of all trees; and ordained victorious warriors and celebrated poets to be crowned with it: an injunction which was ever afterwards observed by the ancients. You will even often find, among the modern pots, laurels for victories. Such a one is loaded with laurels; such a one has gathered laurels in the field of battle: this means, he has been victorious, and has distinguished himself by his bravery. I hope that, in time, you too will be famous for your courage. Valour is essential to a gentleman; besides that it adds brilliancy to his character. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
