<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 78</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-78" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">78</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Lyons, September 1 N. S., 1741</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I have received your Polyglot letter, with which I am very well pleased; and for which it is reasonable you should be very well rewarded. I am glad to see invention and languages go together; for the latter signify very little without the former; but, well joined, they are very usefal. Language is only to express thoughts; and if a man is heedless, and does not give himself time to think, his words will be very frivolous and silly.</p>
			<p>I left Paris five days ago; and, that you may trace me, if you please, upon your map, I came here through Dijon, the capital of Burgundy: I shall go from hence to Vienne, the second city in Dauphiné, (for Grenoble is the capital,) and from thence, down the Rhone, to Avignon, the chief town of the <i xml:lang="fr">Comtat Venaissin</i>, which belongs to the Pope; then to Aix, the principal town of Provence; then to Marseilles; then to Nimes and Montpellier; and then back again. This is a very great and rich town, situated upon two fine rivers that join here, the Rhone and the Saone. Here is the great manufacture of gold, silver, and silk stuffs, which supplies almost all Europe. It was famous in the time of the Romans, and is called, in Latin, <i xml:lang="la">Lugdunum</i>.</p>
			<p>My rambling makes me both a less frequent, and a shorter correspondent, than otherwise I should be; but I am persuaded, that you are now so sen sible how necessary it is to learn and apply yourself, that you want no spur nor admonition to it. Go on then, with diligence, to improve in learning, and, above all, in virtue and honour; and you will make both me and yourself happy. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
