<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 71</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-71" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">71</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Tuesday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I wish I had as much reason to be satisfied with your remembering what you have once learned, as with your learning it; but what signifies your learning any thing soon, if you forget it as soon? Memory depends upon attention, and your forgetfulness proceeds singly from a want of attention. For example, I dare say, if I told you that such a day next week, you should have something that you liked, you would certainly remember the day, and call upon me for it. And why? only because you would attend to it. Now a Greek or a Latin verse is as easily retained as a day of the week, if you would give the same attention to it. I now remember, and can still repeat, all that I learnt when I was of your age; but it is because I then attended to it, knowing that a little attention would save me the trouble of learning the same things over and over again. A man will never do any thing well, that cannot command his attention immediately from one thing to another, as occasion requires. If while he is at his business, he thinks of his diversions, or, if while he is at his diversions, he thinks of his business, he will succeed in neither, but do both very awkwardly. Hoc age, was a maxim among the Romans, which means, do what you are about, and do that only. A little mind is always hurried, by twenty things at once; but a man of sense does but one thing at a time, and resolves to excel in it; for whatever is worth doing at all, is worth doing well. Therefore remember to give yourself up entirely to the thing you are doing, be it what it will, whether your book or your play; for if you have a right ambition, you will desire to excel all boys of your age, at cricket, or trap-ball, as well as in learning. You have one rival in learning, whom I am sure you ought to take particular care to excel, and that is your own picture. Remember what is written there, and consider what a shame it would be, if, when you are <i xml:lang="la">decennis</i>, you should not have got farther than when you were <i xml:lang="la">octennis</i>. Who would not take pains to avoid such a disgrace?</p>
			<p>Another thing I must mention to you, which, though it be not of the same consequence, is, however, worth minding; and that is, the trick you have got of looking close to your book when you read, which is only a trick, for I am sure you are not short-sighted. It is an ugly trick, and has a dull look, and, over and above, will spoil your eyes; therefore always hold your book as far off as you can when you read, and you will soon come to read at a great distance. These little things are not to be neglected; for the very best things receive some addition, by a genteel and graceful manner of doing them. Demosthenes, the famous Grecian orator, being asked which were the three principal parts of an orator; answered, action, action, action; meaning, that the force and persuasion of an orator consisted a great deal in his graceful action, and good elocution. Adieu. You may come to me to-morrow morning, before you go to Mr. Maittaire.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
