<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 1</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-1" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">1</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" epub:type="noteref">1</a><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a>
			</h2>
			<p>I am told, Sir, you are preparing to travel, and that you begin by Holland; I therefore thought it my duty to wish you a prosperous journey, and favourable winds. I hope you will be so good as to acquaint me with your arrival at the Hague; and if, in the course of your travels, you should make any curious observations, be so kind to communicate them to me.</p>
			<p>Holland, where you are going, is by far the finest and richest of the Seven United Provinces, which altogether form the republic. The other provinces are Guelderland, Zealand, Friesland, Utrecht, Groningen, and Overyssel: these seven provinces form what is called the States-General of the United Provinces. This is a very powerful and very considerble republc. I must tell you, that a republic is a free state, without any king. You will first go the Hague, which is the most beautiful village in the world; for it is not a town. Amsterdam, reckoned the capital of the United Provinces, is a very fine rich city; there are, besides, in Holland, several considerable towns, such as Dort, Haerlem, Leyden, Delft and Rotterdam.</p>
			<p>You will observe, throughout Holland, the greatest cleanliness; the very streets are cleaner than our houses are here. Holland carries on a very great trade, particularly to China, Japan, and all over the East Indies.</p>
			<p>You are going to have a great many holidays all together; make the best use of them, by diverting yourself well. At your return hiter, you must regain the lost time, by leaning better than ever. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
