<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 103</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-103" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">103</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Dublin Castle, November 12, 1745</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I have received your two letters, of the 26th October and 2nd November, both which were pretty correct; excepting that you make use of the word disaffection, to express want of affection; in which sense it is seldom or never used, but with regard to the government. People who are egainst the Government are said to be disaffected; but one never eays, such a person is disaffected to his father, his mother, etc. though in truth it would be as proper; but usage alone decides of langunage; and that usage, as I have observed before, is the usage of people of fashion and letters. The common people in every country speak their own language very ill; the people of fashion (as they are called) speak it better, but not always correctly, because they are not always people of letters. Those who speak their own langunage most accurately are those who have learning, and are at the same time in the polite world; at least their language will be reckoned the standard of the language of that country. The grammatical rules of most languages are pretty nearly the same, and your Latin grammar will teach you to speak English grammatically. But every language has its particular idioms amd peculiarities, which are not to be accounted for, but, being established by usage, must be submitted to; as, for instance, <em>How do you do?</em> is absolute nonsense, and has no meaning at all; but is used by every body, for <em>What is the state of your health?</em> There are a thousand expressions of this kind in every language, which, though infinitely absurd, yet being universally received, it would be still more absurd not to make use of them. I had a letter by last post from Mr. Maittaire, in which he tells me, that your Greek grammar goes pretty well, but that you do not retain Greek words; without which, your Greek rules will be of very little use. This is not want of memory, I am sure, but want of attention; for all people remember whatever they attend to. They say that “great wits have short memories;” but I say, that only fools have short ones; because they are incapable of attention, at least to any thing that deserves it, and then they complain of want of memory.</p>
			<p>It is astonishing to me that you have not an ambition to excel in every thing you do; which, by attention to each thing, and to no other at that time, you might easily bring about. Can any thing be more flattering than to be acknowledged to excel in whatever one attempts? and can idleness and dissipation afford any pleasure equal to that? <i xml:lang="la">Qui nil molitur ineptè</i>, was said of Homer; and is the best thing that can be said of any body. Were I in your place, I protest I would be melancholy and mortified, if I did not both construe Homer, and play at pitch, better than any boy of my own age, and in my own form. I like the epigram you sent last very well, and would have you in every letter transcribe ten or a dozen lines ount of some good author; I leave the choice of the subject, and of the language, to you. What I mean by it is, to make you retain so many shining passages of different authors, which writing them is the likeliest way of doing, provided you will but attend to them while you write them. Adieu! Work hard, or you will pass your time very ill at my return.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
