<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 11</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-11" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">11</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-14" id="noteref-14" epub:type="noteref">14</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, October 11, 1738</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
		</article>
		<p>Having mentioned Cicero to you in my last; Cicero, the greatest orator that Rome ever produced (although it produced several); I this day introduce to your acquaintance Demosthenes, the most celebrated of the Grecian orators. To say the truth, I ought to have begun with Demosthenes, as the elder; for he lived about three hundred years before the other. Cicero even improved by reading his orations, as I hope you will in time profit by reading those of both. Let us return to Demosthenes. He was born at Athens, a celebrated city in Greece; and so commanding was his eloquence, that, for a considerable time, he absolutely governed the city, and persuaded the people to whatever he pleased. His elocution was not naturally good, for he stammered; but he got the better of that impediment by speaking with small pebbles in his mouth. He distinguished himself more particularly by his orations against Philip, king of Macedonia, who had designed the conquest of Greece. Those orations being against Philip, were from thence called Philippics. You see how useful it is to be able to speak well, to express one’s self clearly, and to pronounce gracefully. The talent of speaking well is more essentially necessary than any other to make us both agreeable and considerable.</p>
		<p>A propos of the city of Athens; I believe you at present know but little of it; and yet it would be requisite to be well informed upon that subject; for, if Athens was not the mother, at least she was nurse to all the arts and sciences; that is to say, though she did not invent, yet she improved them to the highest degree of perfection. It is true that arts and sciences first began in Egypt; but it is as certain that they were brought to perfection at Athens. The greatest philosophers, (that is to say, men who loved and studied wisdom,) were Athenians, as also the best poets, and the best orators. Arts likewise were there brought to the utmost perfection, such as sculpture, which means the art of cutting figures in stone and in marble; architecture, or the art of building houses, temples and theatres well. Painting, music, in short, every art flourished at Athens. The Athenians bad great delicacy of wit, and justness of taste; they were polite and agreeable. That sort of lively, just, and pleasing wit, which they possessed, was called Attic Salt, because salt has, as you know, something sharp and yet agreeable. Even now, it is said of a man who has that turn of wit, he has attic salt; which means Athenian. I hope you will have a good deal of that salt; but this requires the learning many things, the comprehending and expressing them without hesitation: for the best things lose much of their merit if they appear too studied. Adieu, my dear boy; here is enough for this day.</p>
	</body>
</html>
