<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 26</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-26" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">26</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-29" id="noteref-29" epub:type="noteref">29</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Isleworth, July 8</p>
			<p>I am afraid, my dear child, that you think my letters too grave, for I know you love to joke, and in that you are right; I too like cheerfulness, and we shall often joke together. Sometimes, however, we mast think seriously; but in general one ought to be gay and lively. I would not wish such a jolly fellow as you should set up for a philosopher. When one is learning, one ought to apply, afterwards one should play and divert one’s self.</p>
			<p>In my last to you I wrote concerning the politeness of people of fashion, such as are used to courts, the elegant part of mankind. Their politeness is easy and natural; and you must distinguish it from the civilities of inferior people, and of rustics, which are always constraining and troublesome. Those sort of people are full of ceremony, and overwhelm us with compliments.</p>
			<p>For example, if you dine with a person in an ordinary sphere of life, instead of civilly offering to help you, he will press you to eat and drink whether you will or not, will heap things on your plate; and to prove that you are welcome, he crams you till you are ready to burst.</p>
			<p>A country ’squire stifles you with hearty embraces, and endeavouring to make you go before, throws you down. But a well-bred man shews a constant desire of pleasing, and takes care that his attentions for you be not troublesome. Few English are thoroughly polite; either they are shamefaced or impudent; whereas most French people are easy and polite in their manners. And, as by the better half you are a little Frenchman, so I hope you will at least be <em>half</em> polite. You will be the more distinguished in a country where politeness is not very common.</p>
			<p>I have already mentioned to you, that, if there should be any words in my letters which you do not understand, you are to desire your Mamma to explain them.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
