<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 33</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-33" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">33</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Isleworth, September 10, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>Since you promise to give attention, and to mind what you learn, I shall give myself the trouble of writing to you again, and shall endeavour to instruct you in several things, that do not fall under Mr. Maittaire’s province; and which, if they did, he could teach you much better than I can. I neither pretend nor propose to teach them you thoroughly; you are not yet of an age fit for it: I only mean to give you a general notion, at present, of some things that you must learn more particularly hereafter, and that will then be the easier to you, for having bad a general idea of them now. For example, to give you some notion of History.</p>
			<p>History is an account of whatever has been done by any country in general, or by any number of people, or by any one man; thus, the Roman history is an account of what the Romans did as a nation; the history of Cataline’s conspiracy is an account of what was done by a particular number of people; and the history of Alexander the Great, written by Quintus Curtius, is the account of the life and actions of one single man. History is, in short, an account or relation of any thing that has been done.</p>
			<p>History is divided into sacred and profane, ancient and modern.</p>
			<p>Sacred history is the Bible, that is, the Old and New Testament. The Old Testament is the history of the Jews, who were God’s chosen people; and the New Testament is the history of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.</p>
			<p>Profane history is an account of the Heathen Gods, such as you read in Ovid’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Metamorphoses</i>, and which you will know a great deal more of, when you come to read Homer, Virgil, and the other ancient poets.</p>
			<p>Ancient history is the account of all the kingdoms and countries in the world, down to the end of the Roman empire.</p>
			<p>Modern history is the account of the kingdoms and countries of the world, since the destruction of the Roman empire.</p>
			<p>The perfect knowledge of history is extremely necessary; because, as it informs us of what was done by other people, in former ages, it instructs us what to doin the like cases. Besides, as it is the common subject of conversation, it is a shame to be ignorant of it.</p>
			<p>Geography must necessarily accompany history; for it would not be enough to know what things were done formerly, but we must know where they were done; and geography, you know, is the description of the earth, and shows us the situation of towns, countries, and rivers. For example, geography shows that England is in the north of Europe, that London is the chief town of England, and that it is situated upon the river Thames, in the county of Middlesex; and the same of other towns and countries. Geography is likewise divided into ancient and modern; many countries and towns having now very different names from what they had formerly; and many towns which made a great figure in ancient times, being now utterly destroyed and not existing: as the two famous towns of Troy in Asia, and Carthage in Africa: of both which there are not now the least remains.</p>
			<p>Read this with attention, and then go to play with as much attention and so farewell.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
