<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 53</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-53" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">53</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Tumbridge, July 18, 1740</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>After Sparta and Athens, Thebes and Corinth were the most considerable cities in Greece. Thebes was in Bœotia, a province of Greece, famous for its thick, foggy air, and for the dulness and stupidity of its inhabitants, insomuch that calling a man a Bœotian, was the same as calling him a stupid fellow: and Horace, speaking of a dull, heavy fellow, says, <i xml:lang="la">Bœotum jurares, crasso in aëre, natum</i>.</p>
			<p>However, Thebes made itself very considerable for a time, under the conduct of Epaminondas, who was one of the greatest and most virtuous characters of all antiquity. Thebes, like all the rest of Greece, fell under the absolute dominion of the kings of Macedon, Alexander’s successors. Thebes was founded by Cadmus, who first brought letters into Greece. Œdipus was king of Thebes; whose very remarkable story is worth your reading.</p>
			<p>The city of Corinth sometimes made a figure in defence of the common liberties of Greece; but was chiefly considerable upon account of its great trade and commerce; which enriched it so much, and introduced so much luxury, that, when it was burnt by Mummius, the Roman consul, the number of golden, silver, brass, and copper statues and vases, that were then melted, made that famous metal, called Corinthian brass, so much esteemed by the Romans.</p>
			<p>There were, besides, many other little kingdoms and republics in Greece, which you will be acquainted with when you enter more particularly into that part of ancient history. But to inform yourself a little, at present, concerning Thebes and Corinth, turn to the following articles in Moreri:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>Thebes,</li>
				<li>Cadmus,</li>
				<li>Œdipe,</li>
				<li>Jocaste,</li>
				<li>Sphynx,</li>
				<li>Epaminondas,</li>
				<li>Pelopidas,</li>
				<li>Corinth,</li>
				<li>Mummius.</li>
			</ul>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
