<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 47</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-47" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">47</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, November 20, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>As you are now reading the Roman History, I hope you do it with that care and attention which it deserves. The utility of history consists principally in the examples it gives us of the virtues and vices of those who have gone before: us; upon which we ought to make the proper observations. History animates and excites us to the love and the practice of virtue; by shewing us the regard and veneration that was always paid to great and virtuous men in the times in which they lived, and the praise and glory with which their names are perpetuated and transmitted down to our times. The Roman history furnishes more examples of virtue and magnanimity, or greatness of mind, than any other. It was a common thing to see their consuls and dictators (who, you know, were their chief magistrates) taken from the plough, to lead their armies against their enemies; and, after victory, returning to their plough again, and passing the rest of their lives in modest retirement; a retirement more glorious, if possible, than the victories that preceded it! Many of their greatest men died so poor, that they were buried at the expense of the public. Curius, who had no money of his own, refused a great sum that the Samnites offered him, saying, that he saw no glory in having money himself, but in commanding those that had. Cicero relates it thus: <i xml:lang="la">Curio ad focum sedenti magnum auri pondus Samnites cum attulissent, repudiati ab eo sunt. Non enim aurum habere præclarum sib: videri, sed iis, qui haberent aurum, imperare</i>. And Fabricius, who had often commanded the Roman armies, and as often trinmphed over their enemies, was found by his fireside, eating those roots and herbs which he had planted and cultivated himself in his own field. Seneca tells it thus: <i xml:lang="la">Fabricius ad focum cœnat illas ipsas radices, quas, in agro repurgando, triumphalis Senex, vulsit</i>. Scipio, after a victory he had obtained in Spain, found among the prisoners a young princess of extreme beauty, who, he was informed, was soon to have been married to a man of quality of that country. He ordered her to be entertained and attended with the same care and respect as if she had been in her father’s house; and, as soon as he could find her lover, he gave her to him, and added to her portion the money that her father had brought for her ransom. Valerius Maximus says, <i xml:lang="la">Eximæ Jormæ virginem accersitis parentibus, et sponso inviolatam tradidit, et Juvenis, et Caelebs, et Victor</i>. This was a most glorious example of moderation, continence and generosity, which gained him the hearts of all the people of Spain; and made them say, as Livy tells us, <i xml:lang="la">Venisse Diis simillimum Juvenem, vincentem omnia, cum armis, tum benignitate, ac beneficiis</i>.</p>
			<p>Such are the rewards that always crown virtue; and such the characters that you should imitate, if you would be a great and a good man, which is the only way to be a happy one! Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
