<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 55</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-55" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">55</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Tumbridge, August 3, 1740</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>You have done the verses I sent you very well, excepting the last line, in which you have not placed the words as the sense requires; but even there it appears that you have an ear for poetry, because the line runs as smoothly and as harmoniously, in the order you have put the words, as it does in the true order, which is necessary for the sense. There is likewise one fault in your letter, but such a one as many older persons than you are would have committed. It is where you say, that I may not accuse you <em>with</em> being one of the Tubs of the Danaids; whereas you should have said <em>of</em>, instead of <em>with</em>: <em>of</em> comes always after accuse, and <em>with</em> after reproach. Thus, suppose it were possible for me to suspect that you were ever giddy; I must either say, I accuse you <em>of</em> giddiness, or I reproach you <em>with</em> giddiness. In order to keep your ear in poetic tune, I send you a couple of stanzas of Mr. Waller’s to a lady, who had sung a song to him of his own making, and who sung it so well, that he fell in love with her. The sense of it in prose is this: When you vouchsafe, Chloris, to sing the song I made, you do it so well, that I am caught, like a spirit in my own spell, (that is, enchantment). My fate is like that of an eagle, who, being shot with an arrow, observes his own feathers upon the arrow that kills him. I give you notice that the rhyme is alternate.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>So you excel self your Chloris,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You when thought breathe my vouchsafe to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spirit with this that spell like a</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My teaching own caught am of my, I.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mine one aro eagle’s that fate and</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who shaft made die that him on the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of feather own his a espied</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Us’d he which soar with to high so.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued"><em>Shaft</em>, I should tell you, is a poetical word for an arrow; and <em>soar</em>, signtfies to rise high in the air. The poets often speak of Cupid’s shafts, meaning his arrows; the fatal shaft, the deadly shaft, are poetical expressions for an arrow that has wounded or killed any body. <i xml:lang="la">Sagitta</i> is Latin for an arrow, and <i xml:lang="la">arundo</i> is Latin for the iron point of the arrow. You will often find in the Latin poets, <i xml:lang="la">lethalis arundo</i>, that is, the deadly or the mortal point; <i xml:lang="la">venenata sagitta</i>, that is, a poisoned arrow. Before gunpowder was invented, which is about three hundred years ago, people used to fight chiefly with bows and arrows.</p>
			<p>Adieu, you are a very good boy.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
