<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 51</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-51" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">51</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">London, June 25, 1740</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>As I know you love reading, I send you this book for your amusement, and not by way of task or study. It is an Historical, Chronological, and Geographical Dictionary; in which you may find almost every thing you can desire to know, whether ancient or modern. As historical, it gives you the history of all remarkable persons and things; as chronological, it tells you the time when those persons lived, and when those things were done; and as geographical, it describes the situation of countries and cities. For example, would you know who Aristides the Just was, you will find there, that he was of Athens; that his distinguished honesty and integrity acquired him the name of Just; the most glorious appellation a man can have. You will likewise find, that he commanded the Athenian army at the battle of Platæa, where Mardonius, the Persian general, was defeated, and his army of three hundred thousand men utterly destroyed; and that, for all these virtues, he was banished Athens by the Ostracism. You will then (it may be) be curious to know what the Ostracism is. If you look for it, you will find that the Athenians, being very jealous of their liberties, which they thought were the most in danger from those whose virtue and merit made them the most popular, (that is, recommended them most to the favour of the people,) contrived this ostracism; by which, if six thousand people gave in the name of any one man, written upon a shell, that person was immediately banished for ten years.</p>
			<p>As to chronology, would you know when Charlemain was made Emperor of the West; look for the article Charlemagne, and you will find, that, being already master of all Germany, France, and great part of Spain and Italy, he was declared emperor in the year <time>800</time>.</p>
			<p>As to the geographical part, if you would know the situation of any town or country that you read of, as, for instance, Persepolis, you will find where it was situated, by whom founded, and that it was burned by Alexander the Great, at the instigation of his mistress, Thais, in a drunken riot. In short, you will find a thousand entertaining stories to divert you, when you have leisure from your studies, or your play; for one must always be doing something, and never lavish away so valuable a thing as time; which, if once lost, can never be regained. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
