<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 66</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-66" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">66</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-41" id="noteref-41" epub:type="noteref">41</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Thursday Night</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>You are now reading the Historical Novel of Don Carlos, written by the Abbé of <abbr>St.</abbr> Real. The foundation of it is true; the Abbé bas only embellished a little, in order to give it the turn of a novel; and it is prettily written. A propos, I am in doubt whether you know what a novel is: it is a little gallant history, which must contain a great deal of love, and not exceed one or two small volumes. The subject must be a love affair; the lovers are to meet with many difficulties and obstacles, to oppose the accomplishment of their wishes, but at last overcome them all; and the conclusion or catastrophe must leave them happy. A novel is a kind of abbreviation of a romance; for a romance generally consists of twelve volumes, all filled with insipid love nonsense, and most incredible adventures. The subject of a romance is sometimes a story entirely fictitious, that is to say, quite invented; at other times a true story, but generally so changed and altered, that one cannot know it. For example, in Grand Cyrus, Clelia, and Cleopatra, three celebrated romances, there is some true history; but so blended with falsities and silly love adventures, that they confuse and corrupt the mind, instead of forming and instructing it. The greatest heroes of antiquity are there represented in woods and forests, whining insipid love tales to their inhuman fair one, who answers them in the same style. In short, the reading of romances is a most frivolous occupation, and time merely thrown away. The old romances, written two or three hundred years ago, such as Amadis of Gaul, Orlando the Furious, and others, were stuffed with enchantments, magicians, giants, and such sort of impossibilities; whereas, the more modern romances keep within the bounds of possibility, but not of probability. For I would just as soon believe, that the great Brutus, who expelled the Tarquins from Rome, was shut up by some magician in an enchanted castle, as imagine that he was making silly verses for the beautiful Clelia, as he is represented in the romance of that name.</p>
			<p>Don Carlos, whose name is given to the novel you are now reading, was son to Philip <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span> king of Spain, who was himself son of the Emperor Charlequin, or Charles <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span>. This Charles <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span> was, at the same time, emperor of Germany and king of Spain; he was, besides, master of all Flanders, and the greatest part of Italy. He reigned long; but two or three years before his dea, he abdicated the crown, and retired as a private man to the convent of <abbr>St.</abbr> Just, in Spain. He ceded the empire to his brother Ferdinand; and Spain, America, Flanders and Italy to his son Philip <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>, who was very unlike him, for he was proud and cruel, even towards his son, Don Carlos, whom he put to death.</p>
			<p><em>Don</em> is a title which is given in Spain to every gentleman; as <em>Monsieur</em> in France, and <em>Signor</em> in Italy. For instance, if you were in Spain you would be called <em>Don Philip</em>. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
