<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 92</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-92" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">92</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, July 24, 1742</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>If you have as much pleasure in deserving and receiving praise, as I have in giving it you, when you do deserve it, this letter will be very agreeable to you, for I write it merely to give you your just commendations, for your theme, which I received this morning. The diction, in all the three languages, is better than I could have expected: the English, particularly, is not inelegant; the thoughts are just and sensible; and the historical examples with which you illustrate them are apt and pertinent. I shewed your performance to some men of letters here, and at the same time told them your age; at both which, considered together, they expressed great satisfaction, and some surprise; and said, that if you went on at this rate, but for five or six years longer, you would distinguish yourself extremely, and become very considerable; but then they added (for I must tell you all) that they observed many forward boys stop short on a sudden, from giddiness and inattention, and turn out great blockheads at last. I answered for you, that this would not happen to you, for that you was thoroughly sensible of the usefulness and necessity of knowledge; that you knew it could not be acquired without pains and attention; and that you knew too, that the next four or five years were the only time of your life in which you could acquire it. Of this, I must confess, they doubted a little, and desired I would remember to shew them some of your exercises a year hence, which I promised I would do: so, pray take care to advance, lest what is so much to your honour now, should then prove to your disgrace. <i xml:lang="la">Non progredi est regredi</i>, is a very true maxim in most things, but is particularly true with regard to learning. I am very glad Mr. Maittaire puts you upon making themes, for that will use you to think; and your writing them in English, as well as in Latin and Greek, will improve you in your own language, and teach you both to write and speak it with purity and elegance, which it is most absolutely necessary to do; for though indeed the justness and strength of the thoughts are the most material points, and that words are but the dress of thoughts, yet, as a very handsome man, or woman, may be disfigured, and rendered even disagreeable, by an awkward, slovenly, and ragged dress, so good thoughts may lose great part of their beauty, if expressed in low, improper, and inelegant words. People mistake very much, who imagine that they must of course speak their own language well, and that therefore they need not study it, or attend to it; but you will soon find how false this way of reasoning is, if you observe the English spoken by almost all English people, who have no learning. Most women, and all the ordinary people in general, speak in open defiance of all grammar, use words that are not English, and murder those that are; and though indeed they make themselves understood, they do it so disagreeably, that what they say seldom makes amends for their manner of saying it. I have this day received a letter from Mr. Maittaire, in which he gives me a better account of you than usual; which pleases me so much, that you shall be well rewarded for it when I see you; that will be before it is very long, so you need net write to me any more. Adieu.</p>
			<div epub:type="z3998:postscript">
				<p>As you are now in a way of themes, I send you this to exercise your thoughts upon against I come to town.</p>
				<blockquote xml:lang="la">
					<p>Sapere, et fari quæ sentiat.</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p class="continued">It is in an epistle from Horace to Tibullus; if you read the whole epistle, which is a short and an easy one, with Mr. Maittaire, you will see bow thase words are introduced; then you will consider what are the advantages, and the means of acquiring them. If you can illustrate them by the examples of some who possess those talents eminently, it will do well. And if you can find out a simile, very applicable to the possession, or the want of those talents, it will adorn the composition.</p>
			</div>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
