<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 79</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-79" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">79</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Marseilles, September 22 N. S., 1741</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>You find this letter dated from Marseilles, a sea-port town in the Mediterranean sea. It has been famous and considerable, for these two thousand years at least, upon account of its trade and situation. It is called <i xml:lang="la">Massilia</i> in Latin, and distinguished itself in favour of the Roman liberty against Julius Cæsar. It was here, too, that Milo was banished for killing Clodius. You will find the particulars of these facte, if you look in your dictionary for the articles <em>Marseilles</em> and <em>Milon</em>. It is niow a very large and fine town, extremely rich from its commerce; it is built in a semicircle round the port, which is always full of merchant ships of all nations. Here the king of France keeps his gallies, which are very long ships, rowed by oars, some of forty, some of fifty, and threescore oars. The people who row them are called galley slaves; and are either prisoners taken from the Turks on the coast of Africa, or criminals, who, for various crimes committed in France, are condemned to row in the gallies, either for life, or for a certain number of years. They are chained by the legs with great iron chains, two and two together.</p>
			<p>The prospect, for two leagues round this place, is the most pleasing that can be imagined; consisting of high hills, covered with vineyards, olivetrees, fig-trees, and almond-trees; with above six thousand little country houses interspersed, which they call here <i xml:lang="fr">des Bastides</i>.</p>
			<p>Within about ten leagues of this place, as you will find in the map, is Toulon, another sea-port town upon the Mediterranean, not near so big as this, but much stronger; there most of the French men of war are built and kept; and likewise most of the naval stores, such as ropes, anchors, sails, masts, and whatever belongs to shipping.</p>
			<p>If you look into your geographical dictionary for <em>Provence</em>, you will find the history of this country, which is worth your reading; and when you are looking in your dictionary, look for <em>Dauphiné</em> too, which is the next province to this; and there you will find when <em>Dauphiné</em> was united to the crown of France, upon condition that the king of France’s eldest son should always be called <i xml:lang="fr">le Dauphin</i>. You should, in truth, omit no one opportunity of informing yourself of modern history and geography, which are the common subjects of all conversation, and, consequently, it is a shame to be ignorant of them.</p>
			<p>Since you have begun composition, I send you here another subject to compose a few lines upon:</p>
			<blockquote xml:lang="la">
				<p>“Nil conscire sibi, nulla pallescere culpa.”</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Whoever observes that rule, will always be very happy. May you do it. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
