<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 82</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-82" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">82</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-44" id="noteref-44" epub:type="noteref">44</a>
			</h2>
			<p>France, take it all in all, is the finest country in Europe; for it is very warge, very rich, and very fertile: the climate is admirable; and never either too hot, as in Italy and in Spain, nor too cold, as in Sweden and in Denmark. Towards the north, it is bounded by the Channel; and, towards the south, by the Mediterranean sea: it is separated from Italy by the Alps; which are high mountains, covered with snow the greatest part of the year; and divided from Spain by the Pyrenean mountains, which are also very high. France is divided into twelve governments or provinces, which are,</p>
			<ul>
				<li>Picardy,</li>
				<li>Normandy,</li>
				<li>The Isle of France,</li>
				<li>Champagne,</li>
				<li>Brittany,</li>
				<li>Orléannois,</li>
				<li>Burgundy</li>
				<li>Lyonnois</li>
				<li>Guienne, or Gascony,</li>
				<li>Languedoc,</li>
				<li>Dauphiné,</li>
				<li>Provence.</li>
			</ul>
			<p>The French are geuerally very sensible and agreeable, with a great deal of vivacity and politeness. It is true, they are sometimes rather volatile; but it is a brilliant sort of volatility. They are very brave. The government of France is an absolute monarchy, or rather despotism; that is to say, the king does whatever he pleases, and the people are absolutely slaves.</p>
			<p>Desire your Mamma to shew you the twelve provinces upon the map. Another time we will talk of the towns of France, which she will shew you afterwards.</p>
			<section id="letter-82-1" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Picardy</h3>
				<p>Picardy is the most northern province of all France. It is an open country, and produces hardly any thing but corn. The capital town is Amiens. Abbeville is another town in that province, considerable for the manufactory of woollen cloths established there. Calais is also another good town, and a sea-port: there we usually land in our passage from hence to France.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-82-2" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Normandy</h3>
				<p>Normandy joins Picardy; its largest towns are Rouen and Caen. This province produces vast quantities of apples, with which they make cyder. As for wine, there, as well as in Picardy, they make but little; because, being so far northward, grapes will not ripen. The Normans are reckoned litigious, and fond of law-suits. If they are asked a question, they never return a direct answer; so that when a man gives an evasive answer, it is become a proverb to say, He answers like a Norman.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-82-3" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Isle of France</h3>
				<p>Paris, the capital of the whole kingdom, is in the Isle of France: its situation is upon the Seine; a small and even a muddy river. It is a large town, but not by a great deal so big as London.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-82-4" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Champagne</h3>
				<p>Rheims is the principal town of Champagne: in that town the kings of France are crowned. This province produces the best wine in France, Champaign.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-82-5" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Brittany</h3>
				<p>Brittany is divided into High and Low. In High Brittany is the town of Nantz, where the best brandy is made. Here is also St. Malo, a very good sea-port. In Lower Brittany they speak a kind of langnage, which has less similitude to French than it has to Welsh.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-82-6" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Orléannois</h3>
				<p>Orléannois contains several great and fine towns; Orléans, rendered famous by Joan of Arc, commonly called the Maid of Orléans, who drove the English out of France; Blois, the situation of which is charming, and where the best French is spoken; Tours, that contains a manufactory of thick lutestring, called <i xml:lang="fr">Gros de Tours</i>.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-82-7" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Burgundy</h3>
				<p>Dijon is the capital of this province: the wine called Burgundy is one of the best wines in France.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-82-8" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Lyonnois</h3>
				<p>Lyons is the capital: it is a very large fine town, and extremely rich, on account of the manufactures established here, of silks, and gold and silver stuffs, with which it supplies almost all Europe. Your fine silver waistcoat comes from thence.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-82-9" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Guienne, or Gascony</h3>
				<p>There are many considerable towns in Guienne; as the town of Bourdeaux, which is very large and rich. Most of the wine drank at London, and called in English Claret, comes from thence. It is an excellent place for geod eating; you have there ortolans, and red partridge, in great abundance. In this province is the town of Perigueux, where they make delicious pasties of red partridge and truffles: Bayonne, from whence come excellent hams. The Gascons are the most lively people of France, but rather inclined to lying and boasting; particularly upon the articles of sense and courage; so that it is said of a man who boasts, and is presumptuous, He is a Gascon.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-82-10" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Languedoc</h3>
				<p>Languedoc is the most southern province of France, and consequently the warmest. It contains a great number of fine towns; among others, Narbonne, famous for its excellent honey; and Nimes, celebrated on account of the ancient Roman amphitheatre, which is still to be seen. In this province is also situated the town of Montpellier, the air of which is so pure, and the climate so fine, that sick people, even from hence, sre often sent thither for the recovery of their health.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-82-11" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Dauphiné</h3>
				<p>Grenoble is the capital town. The King of France’s eldest son, who is always called Dauphin, takes his title from this province.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="letter-82-12" epub:type="division">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Provence</h3>
				<p>Provence is a very fine province, and extremely fertile. It produces the best oil, with which it supplies other countries. The fields are full of orange, lemon, and olive trees. The capital is called Aix. In this province is, likewise, the town of Marseilles, a large and fine city, and celebrated sea-port, situated upon the Mediterranean: here the King of France’s galleys are kept. Galleys are large ships with oars; and those who row, people condemned to it, as a punishment for some crime.</p>
			</section>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
