<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 42</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-42" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">42</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-37" id="noteref-37" epub:type="noteref">37</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, October 17, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>Indeed, I believe you are the first boy, to whom (under the age of eight years) one has ever ventured to mention the figures of rhetoric, as I did in my last.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-38" id="noteref-38" epub:type="noteref">38</a> But I am of opinion, that we cannot begin to think too young; and that the art which teaches us how to persuade the mind, and touch the heart, must surely deserve the earliest attention.</p>
			<p>You cannot but be convinced, that a man who speaks and writes with elegance and grace, who makes choice of good words, and adorns and embellishes the subject upon which he either speaks or writes, will persuade better, and succeed more easily in obtaining what he wishes, than a man who does not explain himself clearly, speaks his language ill, or makes use of low and vulgar expressions, and who has neither grace nor elegance in any thing that he says. Now it is by Rhetoric that the art of speaking eloquently is taught; and, though I cannot think of grounding you in it as yet, I would wish, however, to give you an idea of it suitable to your age.</p>
			<p>The first thing you should attend to is, to speak whatever language you do speak in its greatest purity, and according to the rules of Grammar; for we must never offend against grammar, nor make use of words which are not really words. This is not all; for not to speak ill, is not sufficient; we must speak well; and the best method of attaining to that is, to read the best authors with attention; and to observe how people of fashion speak, and those who express themselves best; for shopkeepers, common people, footmen, and maid-servants, all speak ill. They make use of low and vulgar expressions, which people of rank never use. In Numbers, they join the singular and the plural together; in Genders, they confound masculine with feminine; and in Tenses, they often take the one for the other. In order to avoid all these faults, we must read with care, observe the turn and expressions of the best authors, and not pass a word which we do not understand, or concerning which we have the least doubt, without exactly inquiring the meaning of it. For example; when you read Ovid’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Metamorphoses</i> with Mr. Martin, you should ask him the meaning of every word you do not know, and also, whether it is a word which may be made use of in prose as well as in verse; for, as I formerly told you, the language of poetry is different from that which is proper for common discourse; and a man would be to blame, to make use of some words in prose, which are very happily applied in poetry. In the same manner, when you read French with Mr. Pelnote, ask him the meaning of every word you meet with, that is new to you; and desire him to give you examples of the various ways in which it may be used. All this requires only a little attention; and yes . there is nothing more useful, It is said, that a man must be born a poet; but that he can make himself an orator. <i xml:lang="fr">Nascitur Poela, fit Orator</i>. This means, that, to be a Poet, one must be born with a certain degree of strength and vivacity of mind; but that attention, reading and labour, are sufficient to form an orator. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
