<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 101</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-101" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">101</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Hague, April 16 N. S., 1745</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>Give the inclosed to Monsieur Coudert; ’tis in answer to one I received from him lately, in which he commends you, and consequently pleases me. If your praises give me so much pleasure, how much more must they give you, when they come round to you, and are consequently untainted with flattery! To be commended by those, who themselves deserve to be commended, and for things commendable in themselves, is in my mind the greatest pleasure any body can feel. Tacitus expresses it with great strength, in three words, when he relates that Germanicus used to go about his camp in disguise, to hear what his soldiers and officers said of him; and overhearing them always speak well of him, adds, <i xml:lang="la">Fruitur fama sui</i>: <em>He enjoys his own reputation</em>. No man deserves reputation, who does not desire it, and whoever desires it, may be sure, to a certain degree, to deserve it, and to bave it. Do you therefore win it, and wear it: I can assure you that no man is well dressed who does not wear it: he had better be in rags.</p>
			<p>Next to character, which is founded upon solid merit, the most pleasing thing to one’s self is to please, and that depends upon the manner of exerting those good qualities that form the character. Here the graces are to be called in, to accompany and adorn every word and action; the look, the tone of voice, the manner of speaking, the gestures, must all conspire to form that Je ne scai quoi, that every body feels, although nobody can exactly describe. The best way of acquiring it, I believe, is to observe by what particular circumstance each person pleases you the best, and imitate that person in that particular; for what pleases you will probably please another.</p>
			<p>Monsieur Dunoyers will come to you this breaking up, not so much to teach you to dance as to walk, stand, and sit well. They are not such trifles as they are commonly thought, and people are more influenced by them than they imagine; therefore, pray mind them, and let genteel and graceful motions and attitudes become habitual to you. Adieu! I shall see you before it is very long.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
