<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 83</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-83" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2>
					<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal">83</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-45" id="noteref-45" epub:type="noteref">45</a>
				</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Germany</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Germany is a country of vast extent; the southern parts are not unpleasant; the northern exceedingly bad and desert.</p>
			<p>It is divided into ten districts, which are called the Ten Circles of the Empire. The emperor is head, but not master of the empire; for he can do but little without the consent of the electors, princes and imperial free towns; which, altogether, form what is called the Diet of the Empire, that assembles in the town of Ratisbon.</p>
			<p>There are nine electors, which are⁠—The Electors of Mentz, Triers, Cologne, Bohemia, Bavaria, Saxony, Brandenburgh, Palatine, Hanover.</p>
			<p>These nine elect the emperor, for the empire is not hereditary; that is to say, the son does not succeed his father; but when an emperor dies, those nine electors assemble and choose another. The electors are sovereign princes; those of Mentz, Triers, and Cologne, are ecclesiastics, being Archbishops. The elector of Bohemia is king of Bohemia, and his capital town Prague. The elector of Bavaria’s capital is Munich. The elector of Saxony is the most considerable of all the electors, and his electorate the finest; Dresden is the capital, and a beautiful town. The elector of Brandenburg is also king of Prussia, and master of a great extent of country; the capital town of Brandenburg is Berlin. The two most considerable towns belonging to the Elector Palatine are Manheim and Dusseldorp. The elector of Hanover is also king of England; the capital town of that electorate is Hanover, a miserable capital of a miserable country.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-46" id="noteref-46" epub:type="noteref">46</a></p>
			<p>Besides the electors, there are other sovereign princes, and powerful ones, as the landgrave of Hesse Cassel, the duke of Wirtemberg, etc.</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:postscript">[The rest of this geographical description of Germany is unfortunately lost.]</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
