<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 16</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-16" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">16</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-19" id="noteref-19" epub:type="noteref">19</a>
			</h2>
			<p>I have often told you how necessary it was to have a perfect knowledge of history; but cannot repeat it often enough. Cicero properly calls it <i xml:lang="la">testis temporum, lux veritatis, vita memoriæ, magistra vitæ, nuntia vetustatis</i>. By the help of history, a young man may, in some messure, acquire the experience of old age. In reading what has been done, he is apprised of what he has to do; and, the more he is informed of what is past, the better he will know how to conduct himself for the future.</p>
			<p>Of all ancient histories, the Roman is the most interesting and instructive. It abounds most with accounts of illustrious men, and presents us with the greatest number of important events. It likewise spurs us on, more than any other, to virtuous actions, by shewing how a small city, like Rome, founded by a handful of shepherds and vagabonds, could, in the space of seven hudred years, render herself mistress of the world by courage and virtue.</p>
			<p>Hence it is that I have resolved to form a small abridgment of that history, in order to facilitate your acquiring the knowledge of it; and, for the better imprinting it in your mind, I desire that, by little and little, you would translate, and copy it fair into a book, which you must not fail to bring to me every Sunday.</p>
			<p>The whole time of the Roman history, from Romulus down to Augustus Cæsar, being seven hundred and twenty-three years, may be divided into three periods.</p>
			<p>The first, under the seven kings, is of two hundred and forty-four years.</p>
			<p>The second, from the expulsion of the kings, and establishment of the consuls, to the first Punic war, is likewise two hundred and forty-four years.</p>
			<p>The third is, from the first Punic war down to the reign of Augustus Cæsar, and lasts two hundred and thirty-five years: which three periods, added together, make up the seven bundred and twenty-three years above mentioned, from the foundation of Rome to the reign of Augustus Cæsar.</p>
			<p>In the reign of Augustus, Rome was at the summit of her greatness; for she was mistress of the world, though no longer mistress of herself, having lost both her ancient liberty and her ancient virtue. Augustus established the imperial power, which soon degenerated into the most detestable and cruel tyranny, under the succeeding emperors; in consequence of which, Rome fell from her former greatness, in shorter space of time than she had taken to ascend to it.</p>
			<p>The first form of government established at Rome was <em>monarchical</em>; but a limited, not an absolute monarchy, as the power was divided between the king and the senate. The kingdom was elective, and not hereditary; that is, when one king died, another was chosen in his room, and the son of the deceased king did not succeed him. Romulus, who was founder of Rome, was also her first king: he was elected by the people, and he formed the first system of government. He appointed the senate, which consisted of one hundred; and divided the people into three orders, namely, <em>Patricians</em>, who were of the first rank or order; <em>Knights</em>, of the second; and the third was the common people, whom he called <em>Plebeians</em>.</p>
			<p>Translate this into English, and bring it me next Sunday, written upon the lines which I now send you.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
