<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 12</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-12" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">12</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-15" id="noteref-15" epub:type="noteref">15</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, October 18, 1738</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>In my last I wrote to you concerning the celebrated city of Athens. I now resume the subject; because too much cannot be said of it, nor can you be too well instructed concerning it. The greatest men of antiquity were Athenians; and that city produced the finest models of eloguence, poetry, philosophy, painting, sculpture, and, in short, of all the arts and sciences. On those models it was that the Romans afterwards formed their taste, and on the same we must perfect ours. Plato, the greatest philosopher that ever existed, was an Athenian; and such of his writings as still remain are superior to those of all the ancients. A philosopher is both a wise and a learned man. Plato was a disciple, that is to say, a scholar of Socrates, a celebrated philosopher, and the most virtaous amongst the ancients. Socrates himself never wrote, but by his discourses instructed the Athenians. On account of his virtues, all vicious people were enemies to him; they therefore accused him falsely, and he was most unjustly put to death.</p>
			<p>Sophocles and Euripides, two famous tragedians, were both Athenians; as was also Aristophanes, a famous comic poet, who wrote comedies.</p>
			<p>The Athenians were as celebrated for valour as for science. They more than once defeated, both by sea and land, the king of Persia, who invaded Greece with innumerable forces. Themistocles, Miltiades, and Alcibiades, were the most renowned of their generals. In short, the Athenians surpassed the other Greeks in every thing, as much as Greece then outdid the rest of the world. You are soon to read the History of Greece, and it will give you much pleasure.</p>
			<p>I received your letter, and will not fail to execute your orders respecting the case; but let me know what sort of a case you want, as the word <em>case</em> means every thing made to preserve another. So that I must know what it is that you would have in that case. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
