<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 19</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-19" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">19</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-22" id="noteref-22" epub:type="noteref">22</a>
			</h2>
			<p>Soon after the death of Tullus Hostilius, the people placed upon the throne Ancus Marcius, grandson to Numa Pompilius. His first care was to reestablish divine worship, which had been somewhat neglected during the warlike reign of bis predecessor. He engaged in some wars, against his will, and always came off with advantage. He enlarged the city; and died after a reign of twenty-four years; a prince not inferior, whether in peace or war, to any of his predecessors.</p>
			<p>One Lucamon, a Greek by birth, who had. established himself at Rome in the reign of Ancus Marcius, was chosen king in his place, and took the name of Tarquin. He added a hundred senators to the former number; carried on, with success, several wars against the neighbouring states; and enlarged, beautified, and strengthened the city. He made the aqueducts and common sewers, built the circus, and laid the foundation of the capitol; the circus was a celebrated place at Rome, set apart for chariot-races, and other games.</p>
			<p>Tarquin had destined for his successor Servius Tullius, one who, having been taken prisoner of war, was consequently a slave; which the sons of Ancus Marcius, now grown up, bighly resenting, caused Tarquin to be assassinated, in the thirty-eighth year of his reign; but that criminal deed of the sons of Ancus Marcius was attended with no success; for the people elected Servius Tullius king, without asking the concurrence of the senate. This prince was engaged in various wars, which he happily concluded. He divided the people into nineteen tribes; established the Census, or general survey of the citizens; and introduced the custom of giving liberty to slaves, called otherwise manumission. Servius intended to abdicate the crown, and form a perfect republic at Rome, when he was assassinated by his son-in-law, Tarquin the Proud. He reigned forty-four years, aud was, without dispute, the best of all the kings of Rome.</p>
			<p>Tarquin having ascended the throne, invited to royalty neither by the people nor senate, his conduct was suitable to such a beginning, and caused im to be surnamed the Proud. He overturned the wise establishments of the kings, his predecessors, trampled upon the rights of the people, and governed as an arbitrary and despotic prince. He built a magnificent temple to Jupiter, called the Capitol, because, in digging its foundation, the head of a man had been found there, which in Latin is called <i xml:lang="la">Caput</i>: the Capitol was the most celebrated edifice in Rome.</p>
			<p>The tyranny of Tarquin was already become odious and insupportable to the Romans; when an atrocious act of his son Sextus administered to them an opportanity of asserting their liberty. This Sextus, falling in love with Lucretia, wife to Collatinus, who would not consent to his desires, ravished her. The lady discovered the whole matter to her husband, and to Brutus, aud then stabbed herself; having first made them promise to revenge the outrage done to her honour. Whereupon they raised the people; and Tarquin, with all his family, was expelled by solemn decree, after having reigned twenty-five years. Such is the fate that tyrants deserve, and all those who, in doing evil, and oppressing mankind, abuse that power which Providence has given.</p>
			<p>In the reign of Tarquin, the books of the Sybils were brought to Rome, and ever after preserved and consulted as oracles.</p>
			<p>Tarquin, after his expulsion, made several attempts to reinstate himself, and raised some wars against the Romans. He engaged Porsenna, king of Hetruria, to espouse his interest, and make war upon them, in order to his restoration. Porsenna marched against the Romans, defeated their forces, and most probably would have taken their city, had it not been for the extraordinary courage of Horatius Cocles, who alone defended the pass of a bridge against the whole Tuscan army. Porsenna, struck with admiration and awe of so many prodigies of valour as he remarked every day in the Romans, thought proper to make peace with them, and draw off his army.</p>
			<p>They had many other wars with their neighbours, which I omit mentioning, as my purpose is to dwell only upon the most important events. Such s the following one, which happened about sixteen years after the establishing of consuls. The people were loaded with debts, and refused to enlist themselves in military service, unless those debts were cancelled. This was a very pressing and critical conjuncture; but the senate found an expedient, which was to create a Dictator, with a power so absolute as to be above all law; which, however, was to last but a short time. Titus Largius was the personage named for the purpose; who, having appeased the tumult, and restared tranquillity, laid down his high employment.</p>
			<p>The Romans had often, in succeeding times, and on pressing occasions, recourse to this expedient. It is remarkable, that though that office was invested with an absolute and despotic power, not one dictator abused it for upwards of an hundred years.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
