<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 59</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-59" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">59</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Saturday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>Your last translations were very well done; and I believe you begin to apply yourself more. This you may depend upon, that the more you apply, the easier you will find your learning, and the sooner you will have done with it. But, as I have often told you before, it is not the words only that you should mind, but the sense and beauties of the authors you read; which will furnish you with matter, and teach you to think justly upon subjects. For example, if you were to say, in poetry, that it was morning, you would not barely say it was morning; that would not be poetical; but you would represent the morning under some image, or by description, as thus:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>Lo! from the <em>rosy</em> East, her <em>purple</em> doors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Morn unfolds, adorn’d with <em>blushing</em> flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <em>lessen’d</em> stars draw off and disappear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose <em>bright</em> battalions, lastly, Lucifer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brings up, and quits his station in the rear.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Observe, that the day always, rises in the east; and therefore it is said from the rosy east; <em>rosy</em> is the epithet to east; because the break of day, or the aurors, is of a reddish rosy colour. Observe, too, that Lucifer is the name of that star that disappears the last in the morning; for the astronomers have given names to most of the stars. The three last lines, which have the same rhymes, are called a triplet, which is always marked as I bave marked it. The original Latin is thus in Ovid:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>“⁠—Ecce vigil rutilo patefecit ab ortu</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Purpureas Aurora fores, et plena rosarum</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Atria. Diffugiunt stellæ, quarum agmina cogit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lucifer, et cœli statione novissimus exit.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Here is another way of saying that it is morning, as Virgil expresses it:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>“Et jam prima novo spargebat lumine terras</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tithoni croceum linquens Aurora cubile;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jam sole infuso, jam rebus luce retectis.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Thus in English verse:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>And now, Aurora, harbinger of day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose from the <em>saffron</em> bed where Tithon lay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sprinkled o’er the world with <em>new-born</em> light:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun now shining, all things brought to sight.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Look in your dictionary for the articles <i xml:lang="fr">Aurore</i> and <i xml:lang="fr">Tithon</i>, where you will find their story. Tithon was the husband of Aurora. Aurora, in poetical language, means the break of day, or the first part of the morning, Harbinger (by the way) means forerunner, or a person who is sent beforeband, by another, upon a journey, to prepare things for him. The king has several harbingers, that go before him upon the road, to prepare his lodging, and get every thing ready. So Aurora, or the morning, is called, by a metaphor, the harbinger of day, because it foreruns the day.</p>
			<p>I expect very good verses, of your making, by that time you are ten years old; and then you shall be called <i xml:lang="la">Poeta Decennis</i>, which wil be a very uncommon, and, consequently, a very glorious title. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
