<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 97</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-97" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">97</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Cheltenham, June 25, 1743</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy</p>
			<p>This morning I received your letter of the <time datetime="1743-06-23">23rd of June</time>, and not of July as you had dated it. I am very glad you have had that troublesome tooth drawn; you will now, I dare say, be perfectly easy, and have no interruptions, I hope, from school. I send you back your theme, the sense of which I am very well satisfied with; I have corrected the English of it, which corrections I desire you will observe and remember. Though propriety and accuracy are commendable in every language, they are particularly necessary in one’s own; and distinguish people of fashion and education from the illiterate vulgar. Those, who speak and write a language with purity and elegance, have a great advantage over even those who are free from faults, but have yet no beauty nor happiness of style and expression. Cicero says, very truly, that it is a great ornament and advantage to excel other men in the particular quality, in which men excel beasts, Speech. Direct your next to me here, and after that to Bath. Adieu! and, in proportion as you deserve it, I shall always be, Yours.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
