<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 46</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-46" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">46</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, November 5, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I am glad to hear that you went to see the Lord Mayor’s Shew, for I supposed it amused you, and besides I would have you see every thing. It is a good way of getting knowledge, especially if you inquire carefully (as I hope you always do) after the meaning and the particulars of every thing you see. You know then, to be sure, that the Lord Mayor is the head of the city of London, and that there is a new Lord Mayor chosen every year; that the city is governed by the Lord Mayor, the Court of Aldermen, and the Common Council. There are six-and-twenty Aldermen, who are the most considerable tradesmen of the city. The Common Council is very numerous, and consists likewise of tradesmen; who all belong to the several companies, that you saw march in the procession, with their colours and streamers. The Lord Mayor is chosen every year out of the Court of Aldermen. There are but two lord mayors in England; one for the city of London, and the other for the city of York. The mayors of the other towns are only called mayors, not lord mayors. People who have seen little, are apt to stare sillily, and wonder at every new thing they see; but a man who has been bred in the world, looks at every thing with coolness and sedateness, and makes proper observations upon what he sees.</p>
			<p>You need not write to me any more after you receive this, for I shall go away from hence on Saturday or Sunday next. But you may come to me in Grosvenor-Square, on Wednesday the 14th, at ten o’clock in the morning; where you shall find the things you bespoke, and something much better, as an additional reward for your learning well: For though people should not do well for the sake of rewards, yet those who do well ought in justice to be rewarded. One should do well for the sake of doing well, and virtue is its own reward; that is, the consciousness of having done right makes one happy enough even without any other reward. Consciousness means that real and inward judgment that every man forms of his own actions. For example, one says, I am not conscious of any guilt; that is, my heart does not tell me that I an guilty, I feel myself innocent, or I am conscious that I deserve to be punished; that is, I feel that I have committed the fault for which I am to be punished. It comes from the Latin, <i  xml:lang="la">conscire</i>, and <i  xml:lang="la">conscius</i>.⁠—Horace says,</p>
			<blockquote xml:lang="la">
				<p>Nil conscire sibi, nulla pallescere culpa:</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Which means to bave nothing to reproach one’s self with, and not to turn pale with the remorse of guilt. He says too,</p>
			<blockquote xml:lang="la">
				<p>Mens conscia recti:</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">That is, a mind conscious of having done right; the greatest pleasure and bappiness that any man can have. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
