<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 60</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-60" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">60</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Wednesday</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>In my last I sent you two or three poetical descriptions of the Morning; I here send you some of the other parts of the day. The Noon, or Midday, that is twelve o’clock, is thus described by Ovid:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>Fecerat exiguas jam Sol altissimus umbras.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>And in another place,</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>Jamque dies rerum medias contraxerat umbras</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Et sol ex æquo, metâ distabat utrâque:</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Because the sun, at noon, is exactly in the middle of its course, and, being then just perpendicular over our heads, makes the shadows very short; whereas, when the sun shines on either side of us, (as it does mornings and evenings,) the shadows are very long; which you may observe any sunshiny day that you please. The Evening is described thus by Ovid:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>Jam labor exiguus Phœbo restabat; equique</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pulsabant pedibus spatium declivis Olympi:</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">Because the course of the sun, being supposed to be of one day, Phœbus (that is, the sun) is here said to have little more remaining business to do; and his horses are represented as going down hill; which points out the evening; the sun, in the evening, seeming to go downwards. In another place, he says,</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>Jamgque dies exactus erat, tempusque subibat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quod tu nec tenebras, nec possis dicere lucem:</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">For, in the dusk of the evening, one can neither call it day nor night. Night is described by Virgil in this manner:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>Nox erat, et terras animalia fusa per omnes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alituum, pecudumque genus, sopor altus babebat.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">What I mean by sending and explaining these things to you, is to use you to think and reflect a little yourself; and not to repeat words enly like a parrot, without minding or knowing the sense and import of them. For example, when you read a description of any thing, compare it with your own observations; and ask yourself this question, is this so? Have I ever observed it before? And if you have not observed it, take the first opportunity you can of doing it. For instance, if you have not already observed, that the shadows are long in the morning and the evening, and short at noon, try it yourself, and see whether it is true or not. When you hear of the <em>rosy morn</em>, consider with yourself why it is so called, and whether it ought to be called so or not; and observe the morning early, to see if it is not of a reddish, rosy colour. When you hear of Night’s spreading its sable (that is black) wings over the world, consider whether the gradual spreading of the darkness does not extend itself in the sky like black wings. In short, use yourself to think and reflect upon every thing you hear and see; examine every thing, and see whether it is true or not, without taking it upon trust. For example, if you should find in any author, <em>the blue or azure sun</em>, would you not immediately reflect, that could not be just, for the sun is always red? and that he who could eall it so must be either blind, or a fool. When yon read historical facts, think of them within yourself, and compare them with your own notions. For example, when you read of the first Scipio, who, when he conquered Spain, took a beautiful Spanish princess prisoner, who was soon to have been married to a prince of that country, and returned her to her lover, not only untouched, but giving her a fortune besides are you not struck wigh the virtue and generosity of that action? And can you help thinking with yourself, how virtuous it was in Scipio, who was a young man, unmarried, and a conqueror, to withstand the temptation of beauty; and how generous it was to give her fortune; to make amends for the misfortunes of the war? Another reflection too, that naturally occurs upon it, is, how virtuous actions never fail to be rewarded by the commendation and applause of all posterity; for this happened above eighteen hundred years ago; is still remembered with honour; and will be so as long as letters subsist; not to mention the infinite pleasure Scipio must have felt himself, from such a virtuous and heroic action. I wish you more pleasure of that kind, than ever man had. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
