<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 37</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-37" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">37</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-34" id="noteref-34" epub:type="noteref">34</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Isleworth, September 29, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>I am very well pleased with your last letter. The writing was very good, and the promise you make exceedingly fine. You must keep it, for an honest man never breaks his word. You engage then to retain the instructions which I give you. That is sufficient, for though you de not properly comprehend them at present, age and reflection will, in time, make you understand them.</p>
			<p>With respect to the contents of your letter, I believe you have had proper assistance; indeed, I do not as yet expect that you can write a letter without help. You ought, however, to try, for nothing is more requisite than to write a good letter. Nothing in fact is more easy. Most persons who write ill, do so because they aim at writing better than they can, by which means they acquire a formal and unnatural style. Whereas, to write well, we must write easily and naturally. For instance, if you want to write a letter to me, you should only consider what you would say if you were with me, and then write it in plain terms, just as if you were conversing. I will suppose, then, that you sit down to write to me unassisted, and I imagine your letter would probably be much in these words:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Papa,</p>
				<p>I have been at Mr. Maittaire’s this morning, where I have translated English into Latin and Latin into English, and so well, that at the end of my exercise he has writ <i xml:lang="la">optimè</i>. I have likewise repeated a Greek verb, and pretty well. After this I ran home, like a little <em>wild boy</em>, and played till dinnertime. This became a serious task, for I ate like a wolf: and by that you may judge that I am in very good health. Adieu.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Well, Sir, the above is a good letter, and yet very easily written, because itis exceedingly natural. Endeavour then sometimes to write to me of your . self, without minding either the beauty of the writing or the straightness of the lines. Take as little trouble as possible. By that means you will by degrees use yourself to write perfectly well, and with ease. Adieu. Come to me to-morrow at twelve, or Friday morning at eight o’clock.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
