<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 29</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-29" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">29</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-31" id="noteref-31" epub:type="noteref">31</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Isleworth, July</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>In my last, I gave you an example, taken froin Ovid’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Metamorphoses</i>, of the fatal effects of avarice. I now send you another, which is likewise in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Metamorphoses</i>. It is the history of Hippomenes and Atalanta. Atalanta was a princess of extraordinary beauty, consequently she had many lovers; but as she surpassed every body in swiftness, she gave out that she would marry no man but such as could outrun her. Many suitors presented themselves: she overcame them all, and caused them to be put to death. Hippomenes, son of Mars, was not, however, discouraged. He accepted the challenge, ran with her, and she would have surpassed him, had not Venus made him a present of three golden apples from the garden of the Hesperides, which he threw in her way. Atlanta, dazzled with the splendour of the apples, stopped to gather them up; by which means Hippomenes, who continued running, won the race. She, therefore, was obliged to accept of him for a husband; but, eager to consummate their marriage, they lay together in the temple of Cybele, mother of the gods. That goddess, indignant at the affront, changed Hippomenes into a lion, and Atalanta into a lioness. So you see how the love of gold brought misfortune upon Atalanta. She, who had been insensible to the accomplishments and beauty of her other lovers, could not withstand the temptation of gold.</p>
			<p>When you read my letters, I hope you pay attention as well to the spelling as you do to the histories. You must likewise take notice of the manner in which they are written; which ought to be easy and natural, not strained and florid. For instance, when you are about sending a billet doux, or love-letter, to Miss Pinkerton, you must only think of what you would say to her if you were both together, and then write it; that renders the style easy and natural; though some people imagine the wording of a letter to be a great undertaking, and think they must write abundantly better than they talk, which is not at all necessary. Farewell! You are a very good boy, and you learn exceedingly well.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
