<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 17</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-17" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">17</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-20" id="noteref-20" epub:type="noteref">20</a>
			</h2>
			<p>Romulus and Remus were twins, and sons of Rhea Sylvia, daughter of Numitor, king of Alba. Rhea Sylvia was, by her uncle Amulius, shut up among the Vestals, and constrained by him to become one of their number, to prevent her having any children: for the Vestals were obliged to inviolable chastity. She nevertheless proved with child, and pretended she had been forced by the god Mars. When she was delivered of Romulus and Remus, Amulius commanded the infants to be thrown into the Tiber. They were in fact brought to thie river, and exposed in their cradle; but the water retiring, it remained on the dry ground. A she-wolf coming there to drink, suckled them till they were taken home by Faustalus, a shepherd, who educated them as his own. When they were grown up, they associated with a number of Latins, Albans and shepherds, and founded Rome. Romulus, desirous of reigning alone, killed his brother Remus, and was declared king by his followers. On his advancement to the throne, he divided the people into three Tribes, and thirty Curiæ: into Patricians, Plebeians, Senate, Patrons, Clients and Knights. The Patricians were the most considerable of all. The common people were called Plebeians. The Patrons were of the most reputable sort, and protected a certain number of the lower class, who went under the denomination of their Clients. The Senate consisted of one hundred persons, chosen from among the patricians; and the Knights were a select body of three hundred horsemen, who served as <em>life guards</em> to Romulus, to whom he gave the name of <i xml:lang="la">Celeres</i>.</p>
			<p>But Romulus, not satisfied with these regulations, instituted a form of religious worship; establishing the <i xml:lang="la">Auruspices</i> and <i xml:lang="la">Augurs</i>. These were priests; and the business of the former was to inspect the entrails of the vietim offered in sacrifice; that of the latter, to observe the flying, chattering, or singing of birds, declaring whether the omens were favourable or not, before the undertaking of any enterprise.</p>
			<p>Romulus, with a view of attracting people to his new city, declared it an asylum, or sanctuary, for all who were willing to establish their abode in it. This expedient brought an infinite number of people, who flocked to him from the neighbouring towns and country. An asylum signifies a place of safety and protection for all such as are loaded with debts, or who have been guilty of crimes, and fly from justice. In catholic countries, their churches are, at this very time, asylums for all sorts of criminals, who take shelter in them.</p>
			<p>But Rome at this time had few or no women: to remedy which want, Romulus sent proposals of marriage to his neighbours the Sabines, who rejected them with disdain: whereupon Romulus published throughout all the country, that on a certain day he intended to celebrate the festival of the god <i xml:lang="la">Consus</i><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-21" id="noteref-21" epub:type="noteref">21</a>, and invited the neighbouring cities to assist at it. There was a great concourse from all parts on that occasion, particularly of the Sabines; when, on a sudden, the Romans, at a signal given, seized, sword in hand, all the young women they could meet, and afterwards married them. This remarkable event is called the Rape of the Sabines. Enraged at this affront and injustice, the Sabines declared war against the Romans; which was put an end to, and peace concluded, by mediation of the Sabine women living at Rome. A strict union was made between the Romans and Sabines, who became one and the same people; and Tatius, king of the Sabines, reigned jointly with Romulus; but dying soon after, RomuIus reigned again alone.</p>
			<p>Pray observe, that the rape of the Sabines was more an advantageous than a just measure; yet the utility of it should not warrant its injustice; for we ought to endure every misfortune, even death, rather than be guilty of an injustice; and indeed this is the only one that can be imputed to the Romans for many succeeding ages. An age, or century, means one hundred years.</p>
			<p>Rome’s growing power soon raised jealousy in her neighbours, so that Romulus was obliged to engage in several wars, from which he always came off victorious; but as he began to behave himself tyrannically at home, and attacked the privileges of the senate, with a view of reigning with more <em>despotism</em>, be suddenly disappeared. The truth is, the senators killed him; but, as they apprehended the indignation of the people, Proculus Julius, a senator of great repute, protested before the people, that Romulus had appeared to him as a god; assuring him that he had been taken up to heaven, and placed among the deities; and desired that the Romans should worship him under the name of <i xml:lang="fr">Quirinus</i>; which they accordingly did.</p>
			<p>Take notice, that the Roman government, under Romulus, was a <em>mixed</em> and <em>free</em> government; and the King so far from being absolute, that the power was divided between him, the senate, and the people, much the same as it is between our King, the House of Lords, and House of Commons; so that Romulus, attempting so horrible a piece of injustice, as to violate the privileges of the senate, and the liberties of the people, was deservedly punished, as all tyrants ought to be. Every man has a natural right to his liberty; and whoever endeavours to ravish it from him deserves death more than the robber who attacks us for money on the highway.</p>
			<p>Romulus directed the greatest part of his laws and regulations to war; and formed them with the view of rendering his subjects a warlike people, as indeed they were, above all others. Yet it likewise proved fortunate for Rome, that his successor, Numa Pompilius, was a prince of a pacific disposition, who applied himself to the establishing good order in the city, and enacting laws for the encouragement of virtue and religion.</p>
			<p>After the death of Romulus, there was a year’s <em>interregnum</em>. An <em>Interregnum</em> is the interval between the death of one king and the election of another, which can happen only in elective kingdoms, for, in hereditary monarchies, the moment a King dies, his son, or his nearest relation, immediately ascends the throne.</p>
			<p>During the above interregnum, the senators alternately executed the functions of a sovereign; but the people soon became tired of that sort of government, and demanded a king. The choice was difficult; as the Sabines on one side, and the Romans on the other, were desirous of a king being chosen from among themselves, However, there happened, at that time, to live in the little town of <i xml:lang="la">Cures</i>, not far from Rome, a man in great reputation for his probity and justice, called Numa Pompilius, who led a retired life, enjoying the sweets of repose, in a country solitude. It was unanimously agread to choose him king, and ambassadors were dispatched to notify to him his election; but he, far from being dazzled by so sudden and unexpected an elevation, refused the offer, and could scarce be prevailed on to accept it, by the repeated entreaties of the Romans, and of his nearest relations; proving himself the more worthy of that high dignity, as he the less sought it. Remark, from that example of Numa Pompilius, bow virtue forces her way, and shines through the obscarity of a retired life; and that sooner or later it is always rewarded.</p>
			<p>Numa, being now seated on the throne, applied himself to soften the manners of the Romans, and to inspire them with the love of peace, by exercising them in religious duties. He built a temple in honour of the god Janus, which was to be a public mark of war and peace, by keeping it open in time of war, and shut in time of peace. It remained closed during his whole long reign; but from that time, down to the reign of Augustus Cæsar, it was shut but twice; once at the end of the first Punic war, and the second time, in the reign of Augustus, after the fight of Actium, where he vanquished Mark Anthony. The god Janus is always represented with two faces, one looking on the time past, and the other on the future; for which reason you will often find him, in the Latin poets, called <i xml:lang="la">Janus Bifrons</i>, <em>two-fronted Janus</em>. But, to return to Numa; he pretended to have secret conferences with the nymph Egeria, the better to prepare the people (who are ever fond of what is marvellous) to receive his laws and ordinances as divine inspirations. In short, he inspired his subjects with the love of industry, frugality, and even of poverty. He died, universally regretted by his people, after a reign of forty-three years.</p>
			<p>We may venture to say, that Rome was indebted for all her grandeur to these two kings, Romulus and Numa, who laid the foundations of it. Romulus took pains to form the Romans to war; Numa to peace and justice. Had it not been for Numa, they would have continued fierce and uncivilized; had it not been for Romulus, they would perhaps have fallen into indolence and obscurity; but it was the happy union of religious, civil, and military virtues, that rendered them masters of the world.</p>
			<p>Tullus Hostilius was elected king, immediately after the death of Numa Pompilius. This prince had as great talents for war, as his predecessor had for peace, and he soon found an opportunity to exercise them; for the city of Alba, already jealous of the power of Rome, sought a pretext of coming to a rupture with her. War, in fact, was declared on both sides, and the two armies were ready to engage, when an Alban proposed, in order to spare so great an effusion of blood, that a certain number of warriors should. be chosen out of each army, on whose victory the fortune of both nations should depend.</p>
			<p>Tullus Hostilius accepted the proposal, and there happening to be in the Alban army, three brothers, named Curiatii; and in the Roman army, three brothers, called Horatii; who were all much of the same age and strength; they were pitched upon for the champions, and joyfully accepted a choice which reflected so much honour on them. Then, advancing in presence of both armies, the signal for combat was given. Two of the Horatii were soon killed by the Curiatii, who were themselves all three wounded. The third of the Horatii remained yet unhurt; but, not capable of encountering the three Curiatii all together, what he wanted in strength be supplied by stratagem. He pretended to run away, and having gained some ground, looked back, and saw the three Curiatii pursuing him, at some distance from each other, hastening with as much speed as their wounds permitted them; he then returning, killed all three, oue after another.</p>
			<p>The Romans received him joyfully in their camp; but his sister, who was promised in marriage to one of the Curiatii, meeting him, poured forth a deluge of tears, reproaching him with the death of her lover; whereupon the young conqueror, transported with rage, plunged his sword into her bosom. Justice condemned him to death; but having appealed to the people, he received his pardon, in consideration of the service he had rendered to his country.</p>
			<p>Tullus Hostilius reigned thirty-two years, and conducted other wars against the Sabines and Latins. He was a prince possessed of great qualities, but too much addicted to war.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
