<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 43</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-43" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">43</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, October 26, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>Though Poetry differs much from Oratory in many things, yet it makes use of the same figures of Rhetoric; nay, it abounds in metaphors, similies, and allegories; and you may learn the purity of the language, and the ornaments of eloquence, as well by reading verse as prose. Poetical diction, that is, poetical language, is more sublime and lofty than prose, and takes liberties which are not allowed in prose, and are called Poetical Licences. This difference between verse and prose you will easily observe, if you read them both with attention. In verse, things are seldom said plainly and simply, as one would say them in prose; but they are described and embellished: as, for example, what you hear the watchman say often in three words, <em>a cloudy morning</em>, is said thus in verse, in the tragedy of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Cato</i>:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>The dawn is overcast, the morning lowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heavily in clouds brings on the day.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>This is poetical diction, which would be improper in prose, though each word separately may be used in prose.</p>
			<p>I will give you here a very pretty copy of verses of Mr. Waller’s, which is extremely poetical and full of images. It is to a Lady whe played upon the lute. The lute, by the way, is an instrumens with many strings, which are played upon by the fingers.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Such moving sounds from such a careless touch;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So little she concerned, and we so much.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The trembling strings about her fingers crowd,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tell their joy, for every kiss, aloud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small force there needs to make them tremble so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touch’d by that hand, who would not tremble too?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here Love takes stand, and, while she charms the ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Empties his quiver on the list’ning deer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Music so softens and disarms the mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That not one arrow can resistance find.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus the fair tyrant celebrates the prize,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And acts herself the triumph of her eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Nero once, with harp in hand, survey’d</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His flaming Rome: and, as it burnt, he play’d</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Mind all the poetical beauties of these verses. He supposes the sounds of the strings, when she touches them, to be the expression of their joy for kissing her fingers. Then, he compares the trembling of the strings to the trembling of a lover, who is supposed to tremble with joy and awe, when touched by the person he loves. He represents Love (who, you know, is described as a little boy, with a bow, arrows, and a quiver,) as standing by her, and shooting his arrows at people’s hearts, while her music softens and disarms them. Then he concludes with that fine simile of Nero, a very cruel Roman Emperor, who set Rome on fire, and played on the harp all the while it was burning: for, as love is represented by the poets as fire and fames; so she, while people were burning for love of her, played, as Nero did while Rome, which he had set on fire, was burning. Pray get these verses by heart against I see you. Adieu.</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:postscript">You will observe that these verses are all long, or heroic verses, that is, of ten syllables, or five feet; for a foot is two syllables.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
