<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 13</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-13" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">13</span><a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-16" id="noteref-16" epub:type="noteref">16</a>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Bath, October 30, 1738</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Child,</p>
			<p>I received your letter, which is very well written; by that I perceive that you improve, and learn well. This being the case, you may boldly ask for whatever you want. I shall not fail to bring you the case such as you require, excepting that it must not contain instruments for teeth, which are not necessary for you; on the contrary they spoil the teeth, which ought to be kept very clean, but only with a sponge and warm water. In order to obtain whatever you wish from me, you need only be a good boy, and learn well. Besides, consider what reputation you will thereby acquire; other boys will admire you, grown-up people will esteem, and not treat you like a little boy.</p>
			<p>In my two last letters I gave you a short account of the famous city of Athens, formerly so celebrated in Greece. We will now consider another Grecian city, equally renowned, but in another way; this is Lacedemonia, or Sparta, which flourished at the same time as Athens. It was a warlike city, and all its citizens were trained to arms; they were exceedingly brave, and rigidly virtuous. Arts and sciences were not there cultivated, as at Athens; their only study was war. The first duty was the love of their country; and they were persuaded that to die in defence of it was the most glorious of all actions. No instance ever occurred of a Lacedemonian’s having run away. Luxury and ease were not admitted of at Sparta; and to prevent the corruption of manners, gold or silver was not allowed. Early inured to hardships, to strengthen their constitutions, they were brought up in the endurance of cold and heat, likewise to use the most laborious exercise. They spoke but little, and their answers were always short, and full of sense. To this day, a concise style, replete with meaning, is called a Laconic style, from Laconia, by which name Lacedemonia was called.</p>
			<p>Lycurgus was their first legislator, which means, that he gave them laws. He was the most virtaous, and the wisest man that ever lived. A real proof of this is, that althongh he was king, he made them free. Pretending to go a journey for some time, he obliged all the Lacedemonians to make oath, that until his return they would observe his laws strictly. He then went away, and in order that they might never swerve from the laws he bad established, he never returned: thus, to promote the good of his country, he gave up his crown, and the pleasure of living in his native land. Adieu, in three weeks I shall see you.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
