<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 81</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-81" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">81</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>Since you are now in modern history, it is necessary you should have a general notion of the origin of all the present kingdoms and governments of Europe, which are the objects of modern history.</p>
			<p>The Romans, as you very well know, were masters of all Europe, as well as of great part of Asia and Africa, till the third and fourth centuries, that is, about fourteen or fifteen hundred years ago; at which time the Goths broke in upon them, beat them, made themselves masters of all Europe, and founded the several kingdoms of it.</p>
			<p>These Goths were originally the inhabitants of the northern part of Europe, called Scandinavia, north of Sweden; part of which is to this day called Gothland, and belongs to Sweden. They were extremely numerous, and extremely poor; and finding that their own barren, cold country, was unable to support such great numbers of them, they left it, and went out in swarms to seek their fortunes in better countries. When they came into the northern parts of Germany, they beat those who opposed them, and received those who were willing to join them, as many of those northern people did; such as the Vandals, the Huns, the Franks, who are all comprehended under the general name of Goths. Those who went westward were called the Visigoths; and those who went eastward the Ostrogoths. Thus increasing in numbers and strength, they entirely subverted the Roman empire, and made themselves masters of all Europe: and from hence modern history begins. That part of the Goths, who were called the Franks, settled themselves in Gaul, and called it France; the Angli, another set of them, came over here into Britain, since which time it is called England.</p>
			<p>The Goths were a brave but barbarous nation. War was their whole business, and they had not the least notion of arts, sciences and learning; on the contrary, they had an aversion to them, and destroyed, wherever they went, all books, manuscripts, pictures, statues, and all records and monuments of former times; which is the cause that we have so few of those things now remaining; and, at this time, a man that is ignorant of, and despises arts and sciences, is proverbially called a Goth, or a Vandal.</p>
			<p>The Gothic form of government was a wise one; for though they had kings, their kings were little more than generals in time of war, and had very little power in the civil government; and could do nothing without the consent of the principal people, who had regular assemblies for that purpose from whence our parliaments are derived.</p>
			<p>Europe continued, for many centuries, in the grossest and darkest ignorance, under the government of the Goths; till at last, in the fifteenth century, that is, about three hundred years ago, learning, arts, and sciences, revived a little; and soon afterwards flourished under Pope Leo <span epub:type="z3998:roman">X</span> in Italy, and under Francis <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span> in France: what ancient Greek and Latin manuscripts had escaped the fury of the Goths and Vandals were then recovered and published; and painting and sculpture were carried to their highest perfection. What contributed the most to their improvement of learning was the invention of printing, which was discovered at Haerlem, in Holland, in the fifteenth century, in the year <time>1440</time>, which is just three hundred years ago. Adieu!</p>
			<p>Look in your dictionary for the following articles:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>Goths.</li>
				<li>Visigoths,</li>
				<li>Ostrogoths,</li>
				<li>Vandales,</li>
				<li>Alaric.</li>
			</ul>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
