<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 72</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-72" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">72</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Brussels, May 30/19, 1741</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>I believe we are yet well enough together for you to be glad to hear of my safe arrival on this side of the water, which I crossed in four hours time from Dover to Calais. By the way, Calais was the last town that the. English kept in France, after it was conquered by Henry <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span>; and it was yielded up to France in the reign of the popish Queen Mary, daughter to Henry <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VIII</span>. From Calais I went to Dunkirk, which belonged formerly to the Spaniards, and was taken by Oliver Cromwell; but afterwards shamefully sold to France, by King Charles <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>. From Dunkirk I went to Lisle, which is a very great, rich, and strong town, belonging to France, and the chief town of French Flanders. From Lisle I came to Ghent, which is the capital of that part of Flanders that belongs to the Queen of Hungary, as heiress of the House of Austria. It is a very large town, but neither rich nor strong. The Emperor Charles <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span> was born there, and his statue is upon a pillar in the middle of a great square. From Lisle, I came here to Brussels, which is the chief town of Brabant, and a very fine one. Here the best camlets are made, and most of the fine laces that you see worn in England. You may follow me through this journey upon your map; till you take it some time hence, in reality.</p>
			<p>I expect you to make prodigious improvements in your learning, by the time I see you again; for now that you are past nine years old, you have no time to lose: and I wait with impatience for a good account of you from <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Maittaire. I dare not buy any thing for you till then, for fear I should be obliged to keep it myself. But if I should have a very good account, there shall be very good rewards brought over. Adieu!</p>
			<p>Make my compliments to your Mamma; and when you write to me, send your letters to my house in town.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
