<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 107</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-107" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">107</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Dublin, February 26, 1746</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse" xml:lang="la">
				<p>
					<span>Sunt quibus in Satira videar nimis acer.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>I find, Sir, youare one of those; though I cannot imagine why you think so, unless something that I have said, very innocently, has happened to be very applicable to somebody or other of your acquaintance. He makes the satire who applies it, <i xml:lang="la">qui capit ille facit</i>: I hope you do not think I meant you, by any thing I have said; because, if you do, it seems to imply a consciousness of some guilt, which I dare not presume to suppose in your case. I know my duty too well, to express, and your merit too well, to entertain such a suspicion. I have not lately read the satirical authors you mention, having very little time here to read. But, as soon as I return to England, there is a book that I shall read over very carefully; a book that I published not quite fourteen years ago; it is a small quarto, and, though I say it myself, there is something good in it; but at the same time it is so incorrect, so inaccurate, and has so many faults, that I must have a better edition of it published, which I will carefully revise and correct. It will soon be much more generally read than it has been yet; and therefore it is necessary that it should, <i xml:lang="la">prodire in lucem, multò emendatior</i>. I believe you have seldom dipped into this book; and, moreover, I believe it will be the last book that you will read with proper attention; otherwise, if you would take the trouble, you could help me in this new edition more than any body. If you will promise me your assistance I will tell you the book; till then I shall not name it.</p>
			<p>You will find all the Spectators that are good, that is, all Addison’s, in my library, in one large quarto volume of his works; which is perfectly at your service.</p>
			<p>Pray tell Monsieur Codert (who you, with great grammatical purity, say has been <em>to</em> General Cornwall) that I do not doubt, but that whole affair will be set right in a little time. Adieu.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
