<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Letter 34</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="letter-34" epub:type="z3998:letter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Letter</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal">34</span>
			</h2>
			<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Isleworth, September 15, 1739</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Boy,</p>
			<p>History must be accompanied with chronology as well as geography, or else one has but a very confused notion of it; for it is not sufficient to know what things have been done, which history teaches us; and where they have been done, which we learn by geography; but one must know when they have been done, and that is the particular business of chronology. I will therefore give you a general notion of it.</p>
			<p>Chronology (in French <i xml:lang="fr">la Chronologie</i>) fixes the dates of facts; that is, it informs us when such and such things were done; reckoning from certain periods of time, which are called æras or epochs: for example, in Europe, the two principal æras or epochs by which we reckon, are from the creation of the world to the birth of Christ, which was four thousand years; and from the birth of Christ to this time, which is one thousand seven hundred and thirty-nine years; so that, when one speaks of a thing that was done before the birth of Christ, one says, it was done in such a year of the world; as, for instance, Rome was founded in the three thousand two hundred and twe:g-ﬁfth year of the world, which was about seven hundred and fifty years before the birth of Christ. And one says, that Charlemagne was made the first Emperor of Germany in the year eight hundred; that is to say, eight hundred years after the birth of Christ. So that you see, the two great periods, æras, or epochs, from whence we date every thing, are, the creation of the world, and the birth of Jesus Christ.</p>
			<p>There is another term in chronology, called centuries, which is only used in reckoning after the birth of Christ. A century means one hundred years; consequently there have been seventeen centuries since the birth of Christ, and we are now in the eighteenth century. When any body says, then, for example, that such a thing was done in the tenth century, they mean after the year nine hundred, and before the year one thousand, after the birth of Christ. When any body makes a mistake in chronology, and says, that a thing was done some years sooner, or some years later, than it really was, that error is called an Anachronism. Chronology requires memory and attention; both which you can have if you please; and I shall try them both, by asking you questions about this letter, the next time I see you.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
